
Sly Fox

Mr. Rabbit sat on his front porch rocking, eating a great big carrot,
and looking.

"Looks like Sly Fox coming down the road," he said to himself, walking
to the end of the porch. Shading his eyes with his paws, he exclaimed, "It
is Sly Fox."

"Good morning Mr. Rabbit," cried Sly Fox, as he walked across the yard.
"Good morning," replied Mr. Rabbit, a slight frown on his face.

"Well," said Sly Fox, "as I haven't seen you in so long a time, thought
I would stop and chat a while."

Mr. Rabbit could not be rude in his own home, even to an enemy, so he
offered Sly Fox a seat on the porch.

"Take a chair," he said politely.     But Sly Fox did not stay long, and as
he was leaving, he asked: "Mr. Rabbit, my mother is having a good dinner
tonight. Won't you, Mrs. Rabbit, and your three little rabs come to dinner
with me?"

Oh, thought Mr. Rabbit, he knows about my little rabs and wants to take
us off to eat us. He pretended to be disappointed as he replied: "Sorry, Sly
Fox, we have an engagement for today, but if you want us we can come
tomorrow."

At this Sly Fox chuckled inwardly, and readily agreed to come for them
the next day. Wishing Mr. Rabbit "Good day", he trotted on down the road
toward his home.

As soon as he was out of sight, Mr. Rabbit ran into his house and called
Mrs. Rabbit. "Get all our things together," he said, "and put rubber boots
on our little rabs. We have to move quickly to the Piney Woods across the
brook. Old Sly Fox has found our home and will destroy us."

In no time at all the Rabbit family had moved, and the little rabs were
delighted with their new home. A woodland of towering pines it was, the
ground covered with pine needles which made a soft carpeting. The wind made
music in the pine trees, birds sang, and the fragrance of flowers filled the
air. They found a huge hollow tree where Mr. Rabbit burrowed deep and made
them a cozy home. Squirrels had left nuts hidden around in the old tree.
Owls hooted throughout the night, crickets chirped merrily.

Next morning old Sly Fox knocked on the door where he had left Mr.
Rabbit. Mrs. Hedgehog answered the door. "Good morning, Mrs. Hedgehog. Is
Mr. Rabbit in?" inquired Sly Fox with a wicked grin and a cunning look in
his eyes.

"No," replied Mrs. Eedgehog, none too cordially. "The Rabbit family
moved to parts unknown right after you left yesterday."

"Ah," exclaimed old Sly Fox, "Mr. Rabbit and family were going to have
dinner with me. My mother has planned a real feast. Why don't you come and
enjoy it with us?"

"Oh," replied Mrs. Hedgehog, smacking her lips and thinking of all the
goodies, "I have just moved in and there is so much to do! Why not let it go
until tomorrow?"

"Do you like nice young grasshoppers?" asked Sly Fox softly.

"Do I? Nothing so good as tender young grasshoppers," answered Mrs.
Hedgehog, fairly dribbling at the mouth at the thought of such a dainty.

"Well," said Sly Fox, "we pass a field where there are any number of
them. Come get in this sack, and when I stop in the field we will open the
sack and rake in all of them we want. Mother will bake them with apples and
they will be deilicious!" This was too much for greedy Mrs. Hedgehog to
resist, so in the sack she went. Sly Fox with a grin grabbed the sack, threw
it over his shoulder and trotted toward home.     After going a long way, Mrs.
Hedgehog became suspicious and cried, "How long before we reach that field
of grasshoppers?"

"Why, you silly, greedy hedgehog, there is no field of grasshoppers for
you. I am going to eat you for my dinner. It's you with apple dumplings that
my mother will bake."

Every hair on Mrs. Hedgehog's head stood on end with fright. Oh, how
foolish she had been! Her greed had trapped her. If only she had stayed home
and straightened her house and cooked her own dinner, she would not have
been in this sack to be eaten by Sly Fox. Greediness never pays, she thought
to herself.

Sly Fox became tired, and as a slight rain had begun to fall, he looked
for a dry place to sit down. Throwing the sack to the ground and chuckling
at the thought of sitting on Mrs. Hedgehog, he dropped heavily upon the
sack.

"Wow, Wow!" he cried, jumping quickly up, for Mrs. Hedgehog shot her
sharp quills into him with all her might.

Sly Fox ran to and fro trying to pull out the quills, but they had gone
too deep. Home he ran, screaming to his mother. Old Mother Fox threw him
over a log and began pulling out the quills, at the same time calling to a
neighbor fox to bring some honey to put on the places where the quills had
been.

Mrs. Hedgehog crawled out of the bag and began walking slowly toward
home. She thought to herself that never again would she be so greedy and
allow herself to be fooled by Sly Fox or any one else.

Meanwhile, Mr. Rabbit and family were living happily in Piney Woods. The
little rabs played on the crystal clear brook that ran through the woods,
wading, sailing little leaf boats, and trying to catch the silvery minnows
darting here and there.

Late one evening Papa and Mama Rabbit were sitting before the cozy fire
talking. Papa Rabbit had on his house robe and bedroom slippers, reading the
newspaper. Every now and then he looked over his spectacles lovingly at
dainty little Mama Rabbit, dressed in a flowered housecoat and red slippers
and knitting little socks for the little rabs.

"Sniff! Sniff! Sniff!" came suddenly to their ears.

"Sly Fox!" whispered Papa Rabbit, his face now full of concern and
alarm.

"Yes," agreed Mama Rabbit, her voice trembling with fright.

"Go cover the little rabs with straw and tell them to be very, very
quiet," instructed Papa Rabbit.

Mrs. Rabbit quickly covered the little rabs and cautioned them to be as
quiet as mice. Since they were well behaved and obedient little rabs, they
did just as their mother told them.

"I left my big stick beside the old oak tree," cried Papa Rabbit under
his breath. "What shall we do?"

"Sniff! Sniff! Sniff!" went Sly Fox again, scratching up the earth by
the old hollow tree as he began to dig furiously. The poor little Rabbit
family sat still and frightened, their hearts thumping, their paws shaking,
and their eyes bulging with panic. Suddenly in the distance they heard the
"Toot! Toot!Toot!" of horns, and the "Woof! Woof! Woof!" of barking dogs.

Papa Rabbit whispered, "Fox hunters!" as his heart gave a bound of
relief.

Nearer and nearer came the baying of the hounds and the music of the
horns. Old Sly Fox was so busily digging that he failed to hear at first,
but suddenly he stopped digging, and threw back his ears to listen. Then he
quickly jumped away from the log where the Rabbit family lived and started
running.

But the hounds were right after him, baying loudly with all their might.
The horses' feet beat out an excited rhythm as the red-coated fox hunters
urged them on in the chase. Up hill, over the meadows they ran.

Sly Fox was now running for his life, but the dogs were getting closer
and closer. He jumped across the brook and spied a hole among some bushes.
Into this he slid, and as the dogs went down the side of the stream of water
before they jumped across they lost his scent. Sly Fox quickly ran out of
the hole and took off in the opposite direction from the way the dogs were
going. He had been so frightened and so near death that he resolved to
himself never to bother the Rabbit family again.

Meanwhile, when Papa Rabbit had heard the hounds start the chase, he
turned to Mama Rabbit and cried, "Safe at last! Call our little rabs for
prayers of thanksgiving and praise to our Father which art in heaven."

After prayers, Mama Rabbit hustled about making mint tea for her and
Papa Rabbit, and hot chocolate piled high with whipped cream for the little
rabs. After that time they Lived happily among the great whispering pines,
never bothered by old Sly Fox.
--Beulah Murrelle



THIS IS A SHAREWARE TRIAL PROJECT

IT IS NOT "FREEWARE" WE NEED YOUR SUPPORT TO CONTINUE




100 WEST BY 53 NORTH

by

Jim Prentice

Copyright 1990, Jim Prentice, Brandon, Manitoba, CANADA





North of 53. A magic phrase. Spoken, mumbled or thought
inwardly by thousands of souls venturing northward. An
imaginary line, shown only on maps and labelled 53 degrees.
It's presence indicated to highway travellers by road side
signs.
A division of territory as distinct in the mind as any
international border.
If you have not been "North of 53", you have not been
north!
Travellers and writers, poets and pilots, have
contributed to the lore of the north. The rigors of life in
the bush are told in tales of man eating mosquitoes, of
murderous hordes of black flies, of the lumps of flesh
carried away by the giant bull dog flies.
The stories of record breaking trout, walleye, and pike
are legion. There are tales of sights and sounds heard deep
in the spruce forests:
The crashing of moose, tearing through brush and
breaking down trees. The drumming of grouse. The incessant
hum of insects. The cackling quackery of ducks feeding on
quiet ponds and placid bays.
Once heard, the intermittent song of the loon is never
forgotten. It's voice the signature of authenticity of a
northern scene.
If the wildlife in the northern bush land seems
different than found elsewhere, so is the life of man. It
takes a special breed of person to live in the north. The
farther one travels, the more this becomes apparent. The
Southerner, whether on his first or fiftieth trip north of
53, never really becomes aware of the implications of
northern living.
Generally, the owners of "cottages" on southern lakes
have more amenities at hand for a weekend of "roughing it"
than most northern dwellers have on a year round basis.
The modern cabin on a lake shore near a large
metropolitan center is equipped with electric service, a
telephone, paved roads, natural gas pipelines, and cable
television.
Nearby are services that provide food, fuel, repairs,
and entertainment. Drivein theaters and fast food chains
abound. Waterfront businesses have docks built for those
arriving by boat to do their shopping, laundry, or to
transfer suitcases from the family car. The local merchants
deliver goods to the cabin by road or by water.
Entrepreneurs make a businesss of servicing and maintaining
cabins during the owners absence in the off seasons.
Most of these "cottages", whether on the lake shore, or
located five well paved streets from the water, rival the
homes of many city dwellers. These lake side communities,
although seasonal, differ little from the urban living from
which they offer escape.
Look at an average northern community. Study and
compare the standards with those of urban areas and their
nearby lake side retreats.
There are no local bus services. If the car doesn't
start you either walk, or call a taxi. Yes, most areas do
have a taxi service of one kind or another. Even if it's a
ride in the back of some one's pick up truck.
Mail delivery is unknown. A pleasant stroll in
midsummer is contrasted by an ordeal in life threatening
conditions during winter.
House to house delivery of milk and bread is
nonexistent. Perhaps newspapers are delivered, but it
requires a family effort, especially in winter.
Bus, rail and scheduled air services to nearby
settlements is severely restricted, if available at all.
Many small taxi companies exist because of the large fares
collected in the transport of natives to and from the
reserves.
Although diminishing in recent years, the bushpilot and
charter aircraft still play a large role in northern
transportation.
The pilots of these small aircraft learn to live with
conditions that would keep their southern colleagues on the
ground.
In summer they fly float equipped aircraft. They are
busy hauling trappers, fishermen, freight, fish, furs, and
supplies to and from the reserves, fish camps, traplines,
logging areas, and small settlements.
In the fall, when the ice is too thin for skis, yet too
thick for floats, they change the aircraft to wheel
equipment. Changing to skis when ice conditions permit.
Winter flying presents problems that most pilots never
hear of. Temperatures exceeding 40 below zero, blowing snow,
ice crystals, and whiteouts. All these challenge the pilot
in their daily work. The preheating of engines to coax them
to life. The problem of congealed oil in propeller pitch
mechanisms, and fueling with super cooled gasoline are
regular chores.
The ski-equipped aircraft must be tied down with ropes
that are frozen into holes in the four foot ice. The skis
must be lifted or run onto boards or poles to prevent them
freezing into the ice.
Pilots and passengers must wear heavy arctic clothing
as few aircraft have cabin heat systems capable of coping
with the cold. Aircraft batteries are removed at the end of
each day of flying to ensure maximum efficiency the next
day. Wings and engines are covered to stop the ingress of
snow and the build up of frost on the flight surfaces.
Gasoline fueled blow-pots are often carried to provide
engine preheat to ensure starting. The oil in these engines
gets so thick at minus 40 to 50 degrees that the engine
cannot be turned. This writer has done chin-ups on the
propeller of a coldsoaked Cessna which flew the next day
after preheating.
The northern airports lack any degree of services in
comparison to those farther south. Fuel is usually available
if you can locate the operator. Some of the larger
communities may have a pay telephone at the airstrip, but
the normal procedure is to buzz the town on arrival. This
lets the people know you are landing and usually someone
will head out to the strip to meet you.
Unless you are a regular customer, all transactions for
fuel and oil are on a cash basis. Cheques are nearly useless
in a village without a bank. Credit to a stranger is
foolhardy.
During the grip of winter, the snowmobile is the major
mode of transport in all but the largest of settlements. In
many places that do have roads in winter, vehicles are left
running 24 hours a day. If allowed to get cold, it may take
many hours of effort to restart balky engines.
Most northern residents enjoy the winter months. The
change  in seasons brings on a change in activities. The
boats and motors are stored away with the lawnmowers and
garden chairs. The snowmobiles are tuned up, ice-fishing
shacks are towed onto lakes and rivers. The blades of gas-
powered ice augers are sharpened. The fishermen flock to
their favorite spots and drill holes through ice up to four
feet thick.
Whether in the comfort of a shack with a woodburning
stove glowing in the center, or huddled on the ice in the
lee of a snowmobile, they normally take a good catch.
Walleye, trout, pike, tullibee and whitefish as well as
perch, burbot, catfish and bass are plentiful. The most
popular bait is minnows, some use sucker-belly, or net bags
of trout eggs. Others use metal spoons or large bucktail
flies, lead-headed jigging lures, or just snelled hooks. As
in summer, the best bait is whatever the fish are taking at
the time.
Moose hunting is another favorite sport, especially in
the colder weather when the moose are on the move for food
and warmth. The hunter faces problems similar to the pilot
with his equipment. The extreme temperatures require that
his snowmachine be kept in top condition if it is to start
after a day of hunting. Once started it must be dependable.
A life and death situation could develop if the machine
breaks down while 40 or 50 miles from home.
Even his rifle requires special care. A bolt covered
with heavy grease will freeze solid in the cold. The firing
pin may not move when struck by the hammer. Many a moose and
bear lived to face another day because a hunter's weapon
failed to operate.
Other outdoor activities include cross country skiing,
snowmobiling, and racing dog teams. These sports are
included in the many winter festivals held each year.
As spring arrives, the winter equipment is stored away
and once again the boats and motors are brought out. Wagers
are made on the time and date of the break up of river ice.
The snow blowers, shovels, and skidoo suits are replaced
with lawn mowers, rakes, and bathing suits.
The pussy willows blossom. The ducks and geese return
from their winter feeding grounds in the southern U.S.A..
The frogs begin to croak and the first battalions of
mosquitoes are hatched.
From the winter lows of 40 below zero, the mercury
climbs upward. The summer highs reach the 90's, sometimes
100 degrees. A fantastic differential of 140 degrees between
seasons.
Through the seasons, day to day life continues. The
sport and commercial fishing, the trapping and hunting. The
road building, home construction, and landscaping. The
pilots fly passengers and freight. They fly patrols on
hundreds of miles of hydro-electric transmission lines and
forest fire patrols. At regular intervals they carry
conservationists doing animal census. They transport tanks
of baby fish to restock the lakes. The seriously ill or
injured are taken to medical centers by MEDEVAC flights.
Other flights carry fishermen, and tourists.
Prospectors vie with geologists, botanists, biologists,
entomologists, and surveyors. All use the aircraft to see,
touch, smell, measure and record the wonders of the north.
The opening day of each hunting or fishing season is
heralded by the arrival of recreational vehicles of all
types. Trailers and vans, motorhomes and 4X4's arrive daily.
They carry or tow boats and motors, bicycles, motorcycles,
and ATVs. The "first-timers" fill the private and provincial
government campgrounds. The more experienced and
adventuresome travel logging roads and bush trails to
favorite lakes, rivers, and streams.
In town, the streets and parking lots are crammed with
vehicles and equipment.
Gasoline, food, booze, and fishing equipment are sold
in great quantities.
The hotels are full. Reservations were made months in
advance, some were made prior to leaving the year before.
For a few short weeks, during the prime spring fishing
period, every available camping spot is occupied.
As the summer wears on, the sportsmen recede and
tourists take their place. The cycle repeats annually.
Each year a number of travellers arrive in privately
owned aircraft. Piper Cub to Beechcraft. Taildragger to
bizjet. Most have been here before, to some it is a new
experience.
To a southern pilot, a trip north can be unnerving.
Accustomed to flying over a network of roads and railroad
tracks, always in contact with an airport or navigation aid,
they are seldom prepared for the realities of northern
flight.
Airports are hundreds of miles apart. In most cases
there are no roads or railways for navigation. At lower
altitudes, voice contact with an airport is an exception
rather than the rule.
Flight plans of course are mandatory. Map reading is
difficult. There are so many lakes, many of them the same
basic shape that a sharp eye must be kept on the map.
For seaplanes, the ever present danger of logs, rocks,
and reefs is amplified by the distance from civilization.
Flights must be carefully planned around suitable refueling
facilities.
The pilot of a private seaplane is in his own element
here. The pleasure of landing on a remote lake, its quiet
green waters undisturbed by others, is indescribable.
After securing the aircraft and setting up camp, the
true beauty of the north can be enjoyed.
Waters teeming with fish, are surrounded by wildlife of
all types. The smells of wood smoke and coffee mingling with
the sound of fresh fish sizzling in the frypan.
The songs of bird life. The cry of the loon. The
evening wail of coyotes and wolves. The whistle of wings as
ducks, geese, ravens, hawks, and eagles travel down the
shoreline. On the lakes are the wakes of passing beaver and
muskrat. The occasional warning smack of a beaver's tail on
the water as he senses danger.
The varied hues of trees, evergreen and deciduous. The
colors of windflowers. The taste of fresh wild strawberries,
raspberries, and blueberries.
The excitement of an evening sky dancing with a
dazzling display as the Aurora Borealis appears. The
"Northern Lights" are surrounded by stars, incredibly
brilliant against the black, smog free heavens.
Thoughts in the night.... Lying in your tent you hear
rustling noises. A twig snaps. Mouse or rabbit? Moose or
bear? Is the food secure? You visualize the food bundle,
securely tied to a tree branch, high above the ground.
The wind is rising, you can hear small waves breaking
on the shore. Is the airplane alright? Should you go and
check it?
What will the fishing be like in the morning? Will you
get another chance to land the big Walleye that you lost to
day. Or a bigger one?
A lone mosquito buzzes your ear. Somehow he has
penetrated the netting of your tent.
The cry of a loon is the last thing you hear. You sleep
peacefully until the songs of early morning bird life
announce the start of a new day.
But for the constant buzz-sting-slap of insect warfare,
you might be in heaven.
Far to the south, your friends and neighbors are also
facing a new day.
Howling dogs. Screaming kids. Squealing tires. The wail
of police and fire sirens. The reek of diesel fumes from
passing trucks and busses. Telephones jangle and typewriters
clatter. The work piles up.
Dissatisfied customers grumble. The boss looms
threateningly.
They jostle in line for a bus, then for coffee, then
for lunch. They fight traffic to get home.
The neighbor's dog has left a deposit on the lawn. The
children's toys are cluttering the driveway.
They sit down to a TV dinner and discuss your crazy
fishing trip.
The day to day life in the north does have it's
problems; if you happen to own a car for which there is no
local dealer, you may have to order parts from hundreds of
miles away and have them shipped in by bus or plane.
Meanwhile the car sits. The same applies to appliances,
tools, and so on.
There may not be a TV repairman in town. You must send
the set out for repairs, or, buy a new one. By mail order of
course. Providing your community has a TV station to begin
with.
Most northern communities have only one radio station.
The CBC. Some are augmented by local programming.
Other services may be difficult to obtain. For example,
a veterinarian may visit weekly, or monthly, or not at all.
Medical facilities are usually present to some extent, but
any serious illness or injury may require a MEDEVAC flight
to a distant city.
Fresh meat and produce become more of a problem in the
more remote areas. If road or rail service exists the
problem is not too acute. However, in many communities, the
only access is by air. In this event the shipment of
perishable commodities is dependant on space available on
the aircraft. The subsequent prices reflect the added cost
of the product.
On the subject of costs, heating a home with propane
may be five to seven times the cost of natural gas as in
southern homes. Food, gasoline, clothing, and appliances,
are considerably more expensive in the north. Of course the
more remote the location the higher the price.
On a trip into the high arctic a few years ago the
prices ran like this:

Hotel bed $100.00 per night,  per man

Breakfast (2 eggs, 2 toast,
2 bacon, and 2 coffee)
$12.00

Avgas $7.00 per gallon

But then, when you are 250 miles north of the arctic
circle, you expect to pay higher prices.
Why then, do people live in the north?
For the natives it is a matter of ancestry. For many
whites it is also ancestry. To some, they were born there.
Their parents having moved north for employment reasons.
Some are transients, following construction jobs and
other seasonal employment. Others, working for large
corporations or government, are transferred north as a job
requirement.
Life in the north is definitely different. A person
accustomed to life in a large city may  not endure the
rigors involved. They give it up and move south.
Many people, such as myself, move north for an extended
period. In our case it was 10 years. We adapted to the way
of life. We enjoyed the hunting and fishing.
Owning our own aircraft, we were able to travel more
independently than our neighbors. We enjoyed all the great
outdoors had to offer. We learned to adjust to the lack of
night life, and other amenities.
When 10 years had passed, and our children were adults,
we took stock of our situation.
We were stuck in a rut. The same rut that most of the
townspeople were in. Our lives centered around hunting,
fishing, the Post Office, and the TV set.
We decided it was a case of moving now, or possibly
remaining in the north for the rest of our lives.

We left in February of 1984!

We miss the delicious fresh fish from cold clear lakes.
We miss the taste of thick moose steaks, moosemeat sausages,
fresh smoked lake trout, and pancakes with fresh, wild
blueberries. We miss the freedom afforded by a short flight
to a secluded lake shore.
The fishing and hunting within 10 miles of our northern
home was superb. The friendship and camaraderie of our
neighbors was great.
We are happy to have had the opportunity to experience
northern life. But, as we approached the midpoint of our
lives, we wanted to return to civilization. To pick up where
we had left off. To enjoy the supermarkets, and shopping
malls, the fancy restaurants, and gourmet foods. We wanted
to be closer to the center of things, a few hours drive from
a major city rather than an all day trip.
We returned to old friends, and new neighbors. New
stores, and home mail delivery. Lower prices. Broader
choices. More to do and see. More TV channels. Several radio
stations, and newspapers.
We can drive east or west besides north and south. We
can dance to live music and eat in restaurants of many
nationalities.

In short, we are back to civilization

THE END

:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:
-----=====Earth's Dreamlands=====-----
(313)558-5024 {14.4} (313)558-5517
A BBS for text file junkies
RPGNet GM File Archive Site
.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.

The Adveniure of the Three Gables

I don't think that any of my adventures with Mr. Sherlock
Holmes opened quite so abruptly, or so dramatically, as that
which I associate with The Three Gables. I had not seen Holmes
for some days and had no idea of the new channel into which his
activities had been directed. He was in a chatty mood that
morning, however, and had just settled me into the well-worn
low armchair on one side of the fire, while he had curled down
with his pipe in his mouth upon the opposite chair, when our
visitor arrived. If I had said that a mad bull had arrived it would
give a clearer impression of what occurred.
The door had flown open and a huge negro had burst into the
room. He would have been a comic figure if he had not been
terrific, for he was dressed in a very loud gray check suit with a
flowing salmon-coloured tie. His broad face and flattened nose
were thrust forward, as his sullen dark eyes, with a smouldering
gleam of malice in them, turned from one of us to the other.
"Which of you gen'l'men is Masser Holmes?" he asked.
Holmes raised his pipe with a languid smile.
"Oh! it's you, is it?" said our visitor, coming with an un-
pleasant, stealthy step round the angle of the table. "See here,
Masser Holmes, you keep your hands out of other folks' busi-
ness. Leave folks to manage their own affairs. Got that, Masser
Holmes?"
"Keep on talking," said Holmes. "It's fine."
"Oh! it's fine, is it?" growled the savage. "It won't be so
damn fine if I have to trim you up a bit. I've handled your kind
before now, and they didn't look fine when I was through with
them. Look at that, Masser Holmes!"
He swung a huge knotted lump of a fist under my friend's
nose. Holmes examined it closely with an air of great interest.
"Were you born so?" he asked. "Or did it come by degrees?"
It may have been the icy coolness of my friend, or it may have
been the slight clatter which I made as I picked up the poker. In
any case, our visitor's manner became less flamboyant.
"Well, I've given you fair warnin'," said he. "I've a friend
that's interested out Harrow way -- you know what I'm meaning --
and he don't intend to have no buttin' in by you. Got that? You
ain't the law, and I ain't the law either, and if you come in I'll
be on hand also. Don't you forget it."
"I've wanted to meet you for some time," said Holmes. "I
won't ask you to sit down, for I don't like the smell of you, but
aren't you Steve Dixie, the bruiser?"
"That's my name, Masser Holmes, and you'll get put through
it for sure if you give me any lip."
"It is certainly the last thing you need," said Holmes, staring
at our visitor's hideous mouth. "But it was the killing of young
Perkins outside the Holborn -- Bar What! you're not going?"
The negro had sprung back, and his face was leaden. "I won't
listen to no such talk," said he. "What have I to do with this 'ere
Perkins, Masser Holmes? I was trainin' at the Bull Ring in
Birmingham when this boy done gone get into trouble."
"Yes, you'll tell the magistrate about it, Steve," said Holmes.
"I've been watching you and Barney Stockdale --"
"So help me the Lord! Masser Holmes --"
"That's enough. Get out of it. I'll pick you up when I want
you."
"Good-mornin', Masser Holmes. I hope there ain't no hard
feelin's about this 'ere visit?"
"There will be unless you tell me who sent you."
"Why, there ain't no secret about that, Masser Holmes. It was
that same gen'l'man that you have just done gone mention."
"And who set him on to it?"
"S'elp me. I don't know, Masser Holmes. He just say,
'Steve, you go see Mr. Holmes, and tell him his life ain't
safe if he go down Harrow way.' That's the whole truth."
Without waiting for any further questioning, our visitor bolted
out of the room almost as precipitately as he had entered.
Holmes knocked out the ashes of his pipe with a quiet chuckle.
"I am glad you were not forced to break his woolly head,
Watson. I observed your manoeuvres with the poker. But he is
really rather a harmless fellow, a great muscular, foolish, blus-
tering baby, and easily cowed, as you have seen. He is one
of the Spencer John gang and has taken part in some dirty
work of late which I may clear up when I have time. His
immediate principal, Barney, is a more astute person. They
specialize in assaults, intimidation, and the like. What I want
to know is, who is at the back of them on this panicular
occasion?"
"But why do they want to intimidate you?"
"It is this Harrow Weald case. It decides me to look into the
matter, for if it is worth anyone's while to take so much trouble,
there must be something in it."
"But what is it?"
"I was going to tell you when we had this comic interlude.
Here is Mrs. Maberley's note. If you care to come with me we
will wire her and go out at once."

DEAR MR. SHERLOCK HOLMES [I read]:
I have had a succession of strange incidents occur to me
in connection with this house, and I should much value your
advice. You would find me at home any time to-morrow.
The house is within a short walk of the Weald Station. I
believe that my late husband, Mortimer Maberley, was one
of your early clients.
Yours faithfully,
MARY MABERLEY.

The address was "The Three Gables, Harrow Weald."
"So that's that!" said Holmes. "And now, if you can spare
the time, Watson, we will get upon our way."
A short railway journey, and a shorter drive, brought us to the
house, a brick and timber villa, standing in its own acre of
undeveloped grassland. Three small projections above. the upper
windows made a feeble attempt to justify its name. Behind was a
grove of melancholy, half-grown pines, and the whole aspect of
the place was poor and depressing. None the less, we found the
house to be well furnished, and the lady who received us was a
most engaging elderly person, who bore every mark of refine-
ment and culture.
"I remember your husband well, madam," said Holmes,
"though it is some years since he used my services in some
trifling matter."
"Probably you would be more familiar with the name of my
son Douglas."
Holmes looked at her with great interest.
"Dear me! Are you the mother of Douglas Maberley? I knew
him slightly. But of course all London knew him. What a
magnificent creature he was! Where is he now?"
"Dead, Mr. Holmes, dead! He was attache at Rome, and he
died there of pneumonia last month."
"I am sorry. One could not connect death with such a man. I
have never known anyone so vitally alive. He lived intensely --
every fibre of him!"
"Too intensely, Mr. Holmes. That was the ruin of him. You
remember him as he was -- debonair and splendid. You did not
see the moody, morose, brooding creature into which he devel-
oped. His heart was broken. In a single month I seemed to see
my gallant boy turn into a worn-out cynical man."
"A love affair -- a woman?"
"Or a fiend. Well, it was not to talk of my poor lad that I
asked you to come, Mr. Holmes."
"Dr. Watson and I are at your service."
"There have been some very strange happenings. I have been
in this house more than a year now, and as I wished to lead a
retired life I have seen little of my neighbours. Three days ago I
had a call from a man who said that he was a house agent. He
said that this house would exactly suit a client of his, and that if I
would part with it money would be no object. It seemed to me
very strange as there are several empty houses on the market
which appear to be equally eligible, but naturally I was interested
in what he said. I therefore named a price which was five
hundred pounds more than I gave. He at once closed with the
offer, but added that his client desired to buy the furniture as
well and would I put a price upon it. Some of this furniture is
from my old home, and it is, as you see, very good, so that I
named a good round sum. To this also he at once agreed. I had
always wanted to travel, and the bargain was so good a one that
it really seemed that I should be my own mistress for the rest of
my life.
"Yesterday the man arrived with the agreement all drawn out.
Luckily I showed it to Mr. Sutro, my lawyer, who lives in
Harrow. He said to me, 'This is a very strange document. Are
you aware that if you sign it you could not legally take anything
out of the house -- not even your own private possessions?' When
the man came again in the evening I pointed this out, and I said
that I meant only to sell the furniture.
" 'No, no, everything,' said he.
" 'But my clothes? My jewels?'
" 'Well, well, some concession might be made for your per-
sonal effects. But nothing shall go out of the house unchecked.
My client is a very liberal man, but he has his fads and his own
way of doing things. It is everything or nothing with him.'
" 'Then it must be nothing,' said I. And there the matter was
left, but the whole thing seemed to me to be so unusual that I
thought --"
Here we had a very extraordinary interruption.
Holmes raised his hand for silence. Then he strode across the
room, flung open the door, and dragged in a great gaunt woman
whom he had seized by the shoulder. She entered with ungainly
struggle like some huge awkward chicken, torn, squawking, out
of its coop.
"Leave me alone! What are you a-doin' of?" she screeched.
"Why, Susan, what is this?"
"Well, ma'am, I was comin' in to ask if the visitors was
stayin' for lunch when this man jumped out at me."
"I have been listening to her for the last five minutes, but did
not wish to interrupt your most interesting narrative. Just a little
wheezy, Susan, are you not? You breathe too heavily for that
kind of work."
Susan turned a sulky but amazed face upon her captor. "Who
be you, anyhow, and what right have you a-pullin' me about like
this?"
"It was merely that I wished to ask a question in your
presence. Did you, Mrs. Maberley, mention to anyone that you
were going to write to me and consult me?"
"No, Mr. Holmes, I did not."
"Who posted your letter?"
"Susan did."
"Exactly. Now, Susan, to whom was it that you wrote or sent
a message to say that your mistress was asking advice from
me?"
"It's a lie. I sent no message."
"Now, Susan, wheezy people may not live long, you know.
It's a wicked thing to tell fibs. Whom did you tell?"
"Susan!" cried her mistress, "I believe you are a bad, treach-
erous woman. I remember now that I saw you speaking to
someone over the hedge."
"That was my own business," said the woman sullenly.
"Suppose I tell you that it was Barney Stockdale to whom you
spoke?" said Holmes.
"Well, if you know, what do you want to ask for?"
"I was not sure, but I know now. Well now, Susan, it will be
worth ten pounds to you if you will tell me who is at the back of
Barney."
"Someone that could lay down a thousand pounds for every
ten you have in the world."
"So, a rich man? No; you smiled -- a rich woman. Now we
have got so far, you may as well give the name and earn the
tenner."
"I'll see you in hell first."
"Oh, Susan! Language!"
"I am clearing out of here. I've had enough of you all. I'll
send for my box to-morrow." She flounced for the door.
"Good-bye, Susan. Paregoric is the stuff.... Now," he
continued, turning suddenly from lively to severe when the door
had closed behind the flushed and angry woman, "this gang
means business. Look how close they play the game. Your letter
to me had the 10 P.M. postmark. And yet Susan passes the word
to Barney. Barney has time to go to his employer and get
instructions; he or she -- I incline to the latter from Susan's grin
when she thought I had blundered -- forms a plan. Black Steve is
called in, and I am warned off by eleven o'clock next morning.
That's quick work, you know."
"But what do they want?"
"Yes, that's the question. Who had the house before you?"
"A retired sea captain called Ferguson."
"Anything remarkable about him?"
"Not that ever I heard of."
"I was wondering whether he could have buried something.
Of course, when people bury treasure nowadays they do it in the
Post-Office bank. But there are always some lunatics about. It
would be a dull world without them. At first I thought of some
buried valuable. But why, in that case, should they want your
furniture? You don't happen to have a Raphael or a first folio
Shakespeare without knowing it?"
"No, I don't think I have anything rarer than a Crown Derby
tea-set."
"That would hardly justify all this mystery. Besides, why
should they not openly state what they want? If they covet your
tea-set, they can surely offer a price for it without buying you
out, lock, stock, and barrel. No, as I read it, there is something
which you do not know that you have, and which you would not
give up if you did know."
"That is how I read it," said I.
"Dr. Watson agrees, so that settles it."
"Well, Mr. Holmes, what can it be?"
"Let us see whether by this purely mental analysis we can get
it to a finer point. You have been in this house a year."
"Nearly two."
"All the better. During this long period no one wants anything
from you. Now suddenly within three or four days you have
urgent demands. What would you gather from that?"
"It can only mean," said I, "that the object, whatever it may
be, has only just come into the house."
"Settled once again," said Holmes. "Now, Mrs. Maberley
has any object just arrived?"
"No, I have bought nothing new this year."
"Indeed! That is very remarkable. Well, I think we had best
let matters develop a little further until we have clearer data. Is
that lawyer of yours a capable man?"
"Mr. Sutro is most capable."
"Have you another maid, or was the fair Susan, who has just
banged your front door alone?"
"I have a young girl."
"Try and get Sutro to spend a night or two in the house. You
might possibly want protection."
"Against whom?"
"Who knows? The matter is certainly obscure. If I can't find
what they are after, I must approach the matter from the other
end and try to get at the principal. Did this house-agent man give
any address?"
"Simply his card and occupation. Haines-Johnson, Auctioneer
and Valuer."
"I don't think we shall find him in the directory. Honest
business men don't conceal their place of business. Well, you
will let me know any fresh development. I have taken up your
case, and you may rely upon it that I shall see it through."
As we passed through the hall Holmes's eyes, which missed
nothing, lighted upon several trunks and cases which were piled
in a corner. The labels shone out upon them.
" 'Milano.' 'Lucerne.' These are from Italy."
"They are poor Douglas's things."
"You have not unpacked them? How long have you had
them?"
"They arrived last week."
"But you said -- why, surely this might be the missing link.
How do we know that there is not something of value there?"
"There could not possibly be, Mr. Holmes. Poor Douglas had
only his pay and a small annuity. What could he have of value?"
Holmes was lost in thought.
"Delay no longer, Mrs. Maberley," he said at last. "Have
these things taken upstairs to your bedroom. Examine them as
soon as possible and see what they cohtain. I will come to-
morrow and hear your report."
It was quite evident that The Three Gables was under very
close surveillance, for as we came round the high hedge at the
end of the lane there was the negro prize-fighter standing in the
shadow. We came on him quite suddenly, and a grim and
menacing figure he looked in that lonely place. Holmes clapped
his hand to his pocket.
"Lookin' for your gun, Masser Holmes?"
"No, for my scent-bottle, Steve."
"You are funny, Masser Holmes, ain't you?"
"It won't be funny for you, Steve, if I get after you. I gave
you fair warning this morning."
"Well, Masser Holmes, I done gone think over what you said,
and I don't want no more talk about that affair of Masser
Perkins. S'pose I can help you, Masser Holmes, I will."
"Well, then, tell me who is behind you on this job."
"So help me the Lord! Masser Holmes, I told you the truth
before. I don't know. My boss Barney gives me orders and that's
all."
"Well, just bear in mind, Steve, that the lady in that house,
and everything under that roof, is under my protection. Don't
forget it."
"All right, Masser Holmes. I'll remember."
"I've got him thoroughly frightened for his own skin, Wat-
son," Holmes remarked as we walked on. "I think he would
double-cross his employer if he knew who he was. It was lucky I
had some knowledge of the Spencer John crowd, and that Steve
was one of them. Now, Watson, this is a case for Langdale Pike,
and I am going to see him now. When I get back I may be
clearer in the matter."
I saw no more of Holmes during the day, but I could well
imagine how he spent it, for Langdale Pike was his human
book of reference upon all matters of social scandal. This
strange, languid creature spent his waking hours in the bow
window of a St. James's Street club and was the receiving-
station as well as the transmitter for all the gossip of the
metropolis. He made, it was said, a four-figure income by
the paragraphs which he contributed every week to the gar-
bage papers which cater to an inquisitive public. If ever, far
down in the turbid depths of London life, there was some
strange swirl or eddy, it was marked with automatic exact-
ness by this human dial upon the surface. Holmes discreetly
helped Langdale to knowledge, and on occasion was helped in
turn.
When I met my friend in his room early next morning, I was
conscious from his bearing that all was well, but none the less a
most unpleasant surprise was awaiting us. It took the shape of
the following telegram.

Please come out at once. Client's house burgled in the
night. Police in possession.
SUTRO.
Holmes whistled. "The drama has come to a crisis, and
quicker than I had expected. There is a great driving-power at
the back of this business, Watson, which does not surprise me
after what I have heard. This Sutro, of course, is her lawyer. I
made a mistake, I fear, in not asking you to spend the night on
guard. This fellow has clearly proved a broken reed. Well, there
is nothing for it but another journey to Harrow Weald."
We found The Three Gables a very different establishment to
the orderly household of the previous day. A small group of
idlers had assembled at the garden gate, while a couple of
constables were examining the windows and the geranium beds.
Within we met a gray old gentleman, who introduced himself as
the lawyer together with a bustling, rubicund inspector, who
greeted Hoimes as an old friend.
"Well, Mr. Holmes, no chance for you in this case, I'm
afraid. Just a common, ordinary burglary, and well within the
capacity of the poor old police. No experts need apply."
"I am sure the case is in very good hands," said Holmes.
"Merely a common burglary, you say?"
"Quite so. We know pretty well who the men are and where
to find them. It is that gang of Barney Stockdale, with the big
nigger in it -- they've been seen about here."
"Excellent! What did they get?"
"Well, they don't seem to have got much. Mrs. Maberley was
chloroformed and the house was -- Ah! here is the lady herself."
Our friend of yesterday, looking very pale and ill, had entered
the room, leaning upon a little maidservant.
"You gave me good advice, Mr. Holmes," said she, smiling
ruefully. "Alas, I did not take it! I did not wish to trouble Mr.
Sutro, and so I was unprotected."
"I only heard of it this morning," the lawyer explained.
"Mr. Holmes advised me to have some friend in the house. I
neglected his advice, and I have paid for it."
"You look wretchedly ill," said Holmes. "Perhaps you are
hardly equal to telling me what occurred."
"It is all here," said the inspector, tapping a bulky notebook.
"Still, if the lady is not too exhausted --"
"There is really so little to tell. I have no doubt that wicked
Susan had planned an entrance for them. They must have known
the house to an inch. I was conscious for a moment of the
chloroform rag which was thrust over my mouth, but I have no
notion how long I may have been senseless. When I woke, one
man was at the bedside and another was rising with a bundle in
his hand from among my son's baggage, which was partially
opened and littered over the floor. Before he could get away I
sprang up and seized him."
"You took a big risk," said the inspector.
"I clung to him, but he shook me off, and the other may have
struck me, for I can remember no more. Mary the maid heard the
noise and began screaming out of the window. That brought the
police, but the rascals had got away."
"What did they take?"
"Well, I don't think there is anything of value missing. I am
sure there was nothing in my son's trunks."
"Did the men leave no clue?"
"There was one sheet of paper which I may have torn from
the man that I grasped. It was lying all crumpled on the floor. It
is in my son's handwriting."
"Which means that it is not of much use," said the inspector.
"Now if it had been in the burglar's --"
"Exactly," said Holmes. "What rugged common sense! None
the less, I should be curious to see it."
The inspector drew a folded sheet of foolscap from his
pocketbook.
"I never pass anything, however trifling," said he with some
pomposity. "That is my advice to you, Mr. Holmes. In twenty-
five years' experience I have learned my lesson. There is always
the chance of finger-marks or something."
Holmes inspected the sheet of paper.
"What do you make of it, Inspector?"
"Seems to be the end of some queer novel, so far as I can
see."
"It may certainly prove to be the end of a queer tale," said
Holmes. "You have noticed the number on the top of the page.
It is two hundred and forty-five. Where are the odd two hundred
and forty-four pages?"
"Well, I suppose the burglars got those. Much good may it do
them!"
"It seems a queer thing to break into a house in order to steal
such papers as that. Does it suggest anything to you, Inspector?"
"Yes, sir, it suggests that in their hurry the rascals just
grabbed at what came first to hand. I wish them joy of what they
got."
"Why should they go to my son's things?" asked Mrs.
Maberley.
"Well, they found nothing valuable downstairs, so they tried
their luck upstairs. That is how I read it. What do you make of
it, Mr. Holmes?"
"I must think it over, Inspector. Come to the window, Wat-
son." Then, as we stood together, he read over the fragment of
paper. It began in the middle of a sentence and ran like this:

". . . face bled considerably from the cuts and blows,
but it was nothing to the bleeding of his heart as he saw that
lovely face, the face for which he had been prepared to
sacrifice his very life, looking out at his agony and humilia-
tion. She smiled -- yes, by Heaven! she smiled, like the
heartless fiend she was, as he looked up at her. It was at
that moment that love died and hate was born. Man must
live for something. If it is not for your embrace, my lady,
then it shall surely be for your undoing and my complete
revenge."

"Queer grammar!" said Holmes with a smile as he handed the
paper back to the inspector. "Did you notice how the 'he'
suddenly changed to 'my'? The writer was so carried away by
his own story that he imagined himself at the supreme moment to
be the hero."
"It seemed mighty poor stuff," said the inspector as he re-
placed it in his book. "What! are you off, Mr. Holmes?"
"I don't think there is anything more for me to do now that
the case is in such capable hands. By the way, Mrs. Maberley,
did you say you wished to travel?"
"It has always been my dream, Mr. Holmes."
"Where would you like to go -- Cairo, Madeira, the Riviera?"
"Oh if I had the money I would go round the world."
"Quite so. Round the world. Well, good-morning. I may drop
you a line in the evening." As we passed the window I caught a
glimpse of the inspector's smile and shake of the head. "These
clever fellows have always a touch of madness." That was what
I read in the inspector's smile.
"Now, Watson, we are at the last lap of our little journey,"
said Holmes when we were back in the roar of central London
once more. "I think we had best clear the matter up at once, and
it would be well that you should come with me, for it is safer to
have a witness when you are dealing with such a lady as Isadora
Klein."
We had taken a cab and were speeding to some address in
Grosvenor Square. Holmes had been sunk in thought, but he
roused himself suddenly.
"By the way, Watson, I suppose you see it all clearly?"
"No, I can't say that I do. I only gather that we are going to
see the lady who is behind all this mischief."
"Exactly! But does the name Isadora Klein convey nothing to
you? She was, of course, the celebrated beauty. There was never
a woman to touch her. She is pure Spanish, the real blood of the
masterfui Conquistadors, and her people have been leaders in
Pernambuco for generations. She married the aged German sugar
king, Klein, and presently found herself the richest as well as the
most lovely widow upon earth. Then there was an interval of
adventure when she pleased her own tastes. She had several
lovers, and Douglas Maberley, one of the most striking men in
London, was one of them. It was by all accounts more than an
adventure with him. He was not a society butterfly but a strong,
proud man who gave and expected all. But she is the 'belle dame
sans merci' of fiction. When her caprice is satisfied the matter is
ended, and if the other party in the matter can't take her word
for it she knows how to bring it home to him."
"Then that was his own story --"
"Ah! you are piecing it together now. I hear that she is about
to marry the young Duke of Lomond, who might almost be her
son. His Grace's ma might overlook the age, but a big scandal
would be a different matter, so it is imperative -- Ah! here we
are."
It was one of the finest corner-houses of the West End. A
machine-like footman took up our cards and returned with word
that the lady was not at home. "Then we shall wait until she is,"
said Holmes cheerfully.
The machine broke down.
"Not at home means not at home to you," said the footman.
"Good," Holmes answered. "That means that we shall not
have to wait. Kindly give this note to your mistress."
He scribbled three or four words upon a sheet of his notebook,
folded it, and handed it to the man.
"What did you say, Holmes?" I asked.
"I simply wrote: 'Shall it be the police, then?' I think that
should pass us in."
It did -- with amazing celerity. A minute later we were in an
Arabian Nights drawing-room, vast and wonderful, in a half
gloom, picked out with an occasional pink electric light. The
lady had come, I felt, to that time of life when even the proudest
beauty finds the half light more welcome. She rose from a settee
as we entered: tall, queenly, a perfect figure, a lovely mask-like
face, with two wonderful Spanish eyes which looked murder at
us both.
"What is this intrusion -- and this insulting message?" she
asked, holding up the slip of paper.
"I need not explain, madame. I have too much respect for
your intelligence to do so -- though I confess that intelligence has
been surprisingly at fault of late."
"How so, sir?"
"By supposing that your hired bullies could frighten me from
my work. Surely no man would take up my profession if it were
not that danger attracts him. It was you, then, who forced me to
examine the case of young Maberley."
"I have no idea what you are talking about. What have I to do
with hired bullies?"
Holmes turned away wearily.
"Yes, I have underrated your intelligence. Well, good-after-
noon!"
"Stop! Where are you going?"
"To Scotland Yard."
We had not got halfway to the door before she had overtaken
us and was holding his arm. She had turned in a moment from
steel to velvet.
"Come and sit down, gentlemen. Let us talk this matter over.
I feel that I may be frank with you, Mr. Holmes. You have the
feelings of a gentleman. How quick a woman's instinct is to find
it out. I will treat you as a friend."
"I cannot promise to reciprocate, madame. I am not the law,
but I represent justice so far as my feeble powers go. I am ready
to listen, and then I will tell you how I will act."
"No doubt it was foolish of me to threaten a brave man like
yourself."
"What was really foolish, madame, is that you have placed
yourself in the power of a band of rascals who may blackmail or
give you away."
"No, no! I am not so simple. Since I have promised to be
frank, I may say that no one, save Barney Stockdale and Susan,
his wife, have the least idea who their employer is. As to them,
well, it is not the first --" She smiled and nodded with a
charming coquettish intimacy.
"l see. You've tested them before."
"They are good hounds who run silent."
"Such hounds have a way sooner or later of biting the hand
that feeds them. They will be arrested for this burglary. The
police are already after them."
"They will take what comes to them. That is what they are
paid for. I shall not appear in the matter."
"Unless I bring you into it."
"No, no, you would not. You are a gentleman. It is a wom-
an's secret."
"In the first place, you must give back this manuscript."
She broke into a ripple of laughter and walked to the fireplace.
There was a calcined mass which she broke up with the poker.
"Shall I give this back?" she asked. So roguish and exquisite
did she look as she stood before us with a challenging smile that
I felt of all Holmes's criminals this was the one whom he would
find it hardest to face. However, he was immune from sentiment.
"That seals your fate," he said coldly. "You are very prompt
in your actions, madame, but you have overdone it on this
occasion."
She threw the poker down with a clatter.
"How hard you are!" she cried. "May I tell you the whole
story?"
"I fancy I could tell it to you."
"But you must look at it with my eyes, Mr. Holmes. You
must realize it from the point of view of a woman who sees all
her life's ambition about to be ruined at the last moment. Is such
a woman to be blamed if she protects herself?"
"The original sin was yours."
"Yes, yes! I admit it. He was a dear boy, Douglas, but it so
chanced that he could not fit into my plans. He wanted marriage --
marriage, Mr. Holmes -- with a penniless commoner. Nothing
less would serve him. Then he became pertinacious. Because I
had given he seemed to think that I still must give, and to him
only. It was intolerable. At last I had to make him realize it."
"By hiring ruffians to beat him under your own window."
"You do indeed seem to know everything. Well, it is true.
Barney and the boys drove him away, and were, I admit, a little
rough in doing so. But what did he do then? Could I have
believed that a gentleman would do such an act? He wrote a
book in which he described his own story. I, of course, was the
wolf; he the lamb. It was all there, under different names, of
course; but who in all London would have failed to recognize it?
What do you say to that, Mr. Holmes?"
"Well, he was within his rights."
"It was as if the air of Italy had got into his blood and brought
with it the old cruel Italian spirit. He wrote to me and sent me a
copy of his book that I might have the torture of anticipation.
There were two copies, he said -- one for me, one for his
publisher."
"How did you know the publisher's had not reached him?"
"I knew who his publisher was. It is not his only novel, you
know. I found out that he had not heard from Italy. Then came
Douglas's sudden death. So long as that other manuscript was in
the world there was no safety for me. Of course, it must be
among his effects, and these would be returned to his mother. I
set the gang at work. One of them got into the house as servant.
I wanted to do the thing honestly. I really and truly did. I was
ready to buy the house and everything in it. I offered any price
she cared to ask. I only tried the other way when everything else
had failed. Now, Mr. Holmes, granting that I was too hard on
Douglas -- and, God knows, I am sorry for it! -- what else could I
do with my whole future at stake?"
Sherlock Holmes shrugged his shoulders.
"Well, well," said he, "I suppose I shall have to compound a
felony as usual. How much does it cost to go round the world in
first-class style?"
The lady stared in amazement.
"Could it be done on five thousand pounds?"
"Well, I should think so, indeed!"
"Very good. I think you will sign me a check for that, and I
will see that it comes to Mrs. Maberley. You owe her a little
change of air. Meantime, lady" -- he wagged a cautionary
forefinger -- "have a care! Have a care! You can't play with
edged tools forever without cutting those dainty hands."


THE THREE LITTLE PIGS

Once upon a time . . . there were three little pigs, who left their mummy
and daddy to see the world.
All summer long, they roamed through the woods and over the plains,playing
games and having fun. None were happier than the three little pigs, and they
easily made friends with everyone. Wherever they went, they were given a warm
welcome, but as summer drew to a close, they realized that folk were drifting
back to their usual jobs, and preparing for winter. Autumn came and it began
to rain. The three little pigs started to feel they needed a real home. Sadly
they knew that the fun was over now and they must set to work like the others,
or they'd be left in the cold and rain, with no roof over their heads. They
talked about what to do, but each decided for himself. The laziest little pig
said he'd build a straw hut.
"It wlll only take a day,' he said. The others disagreed.
"It's too fragile," they said disapprovingly, but he refused to listen. Not
quite so lazy, the second little pig went in search of planks of seasoned
wood.
"Clunk! Clunk! Clunk!" It took him two days to nail them together. But the
third little pig did not like the wooden house.
"That's not the way to build a house!" he said. "It takes time, patience
and hard work to buiid a house that is strong enough to stand up to wind,
rain, and snow, and most of all, protect us from the wolf!"
The days went by, and the wisest little pig's house took shape, brick by
brick. From time to time, his brothers visited him, saying with a chuckle:
"Why are you working so hard? Why don't you come and play?" But the
stubborn bricklayer pig just said "no".
"I shall finish my house first. It must be solid and sturdy. And then I'll
come and play!" he said. "I shall not be foolish like you! For he who laughs
last, laughs longest!"
It was the wisest little pig that found the tracks of a big wolf in the
neighbourhood.
The little pigs rushed home in alarm. Along came the wolf, scowling
fiercely at the laziest pig's straw hut.
"Come out!" ordered the wolf, his mouth watering. I want to speak to you!"
"I'd rather stay where I am!" replied the little pig in a tiny voice.
"I'll make you come out!" growled the wolf angrily, and puffing out his
chest, he took a very deep breath. Then he blew wlth all his might, right onto
the house. And all the straw the silly pig had heaped against some thin poles,
fell down in the great blast. Excited by his own cleverness, the wolf did not
notice that the little pig had slithered out from underneath the heap of
straw, and was dashing towards his brother's wooden house. When he realized
that the little pig was escaping, the wolf grew wild with rage.
"Come back!" he roared, trying to catch the pig as he ran into the wooden
house. The other little pig greeted his brother, shaking like a leaf.
"I hope this house won't fall down! Let's lean against the door so he can't
break in!"
Outside, the wolf could hear the little pigs' words. Starving as he was, at
the idea of a two-course meal, he rained blows on the door.
"Open up! Open up! I only want to speak to you!"
Inside, the two brothers wept in fear and did their best to hold the door
fast against the blows. Then the furious wolf braced himself a new effort: he
drew in a really enormous breath, and went ... WHOOOOO! The wooden house
collapsed like a pack of cards.
Luckily, the wisest little pig had been watching the scene from the window
of his own brick house, and he rapidly opened the door to his fleeing
brothers. And not a moment too soon, for the wolf was already hammering
furiously on the door. This time, the wolf had grave doubts. This house had a
much more solid air than the others. He blew once, he blew again and then for
a third time. But all was in vain. For the house did not budge an lnch. The
three little pigs watched him and their fear began to fade. Quite exhausted by
his efforts, the wolf decided to try one of his tricks. He scrambled up a
nearby ladder, on to the roof to have a look at the chimney. However, the
wisest little pig had seen thls ploy, and he quickly said:
"Quick! Light the fire!" With his long legs thrust down the chimney, the
wolf was not sure if he should slide down the black hole. It wouldn'tbe easy
to get in, but the sound of the little pigs' voices below only made him feel
hungrier.
"I'm dying of hunger! I'm goin to try and get down." And he let himself
drop. But landing was rather hot, too hot! The wolf landed in the fire, stunned
by his fall.
The flames licked his hairy coat and his tail became a flaring torch.
"Never again! Never again will I go down a chimneyl" he squealed, as he
tried to put out the flames in his tail. Then he ran away as fast as he could.
The three happy little pigs, dancing round and round the yard, began to
sing:
"Tra-la-la! Tra-la-la! The wicked black wolf will never come back...!"
From that terrible day on, the wisest little pig's brothers set to work
with a will. In less than no time, up went the two new brick houses. The wolf
did return once to roam in the neighbourhood, but when he caught sight of
three chimneys, he remembered the terrible pain of a burnt tail, and he left
for good.
Now safe and happy, the wisest little pig called to his brothers:
"No more work! Come on, let's go and play!"

:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:
-----=====Earth's Dreamlands=====-----
(313)558-5024 {14.4} (313)558-5517
A BBS for text file junkies
RPGNet GM File Archive Site
.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.

The Adventure of the Three Students

It was in the year '95 that a combination of events, into which I
need not enter, caused Mr. Sherlock Holmes and myself to spend
some weeks in one of our great university towns, and it was
during this time that the small but instructive adventure which I
am about to relate befell us. It will be obvious that any details
which would help the reader exactly to identify the college or the
criminal would be injudicious and offensive. So painful a scan-
dal may well be allowed to die out. With due discretion the
incident itself may, however, be described, since it serves to
illustrate some of those qualities for which my friend was re-
markable. I will endeavour, in my statement, to avoid such terms
as would serve to limit the events to any particular place, or give
a clue as to the people concerned.
We were residing at the time in furnished lodgings close to a
library where Sherlock Holmes was pursuing some laborious
researches in early English charters -- researches which led to
results so striking that they may be the subject of one of my
future narratives. Here it was that one evening we received a
visit from an acquaintance, Mr. Hilton Soames, tutor and lec-
turer at the College of St. Luke's. Mr. Soames was a tall, spare
man, of a nervous and excitable temperament. I had always
known him to be restless in his manner, but on this particular
occasion he was in such a state of uncontrollable agitation that it
was clear something very unusual had occurred.
"I trust, Mr. Holmes, that you can spare me a few hours of
your valuable time. We have had a very painful incident at St.
Luke's, and really, but for the happy chance of your being in
town, I should have been at a loss what to do."
"I am very busy just now, and I desire no distractions," my
friend answered. "I should much prefer that you called in the aid
of the police."
"No, no, my dear sir; such a course is utterly impossible.
When once the law is evoked it cannot be stayed again, and this
is just one of those cases where, for the credit of the college, it is
most essential to avoid scandal. Your discretion is as well known
as your powers, and you are the one man in the world who can
help me. I beg you, Mr. Holmes, to do what you can."
My friend's temper had not improved since he had been
deprived of the congenial surroundings of Baker Street. Without
his scrapbooks, his chemicals, and his homely untidiness, he was
an uncomfortable man. He shrugged his shoulders in ungracious
acquiescence, while our visitor in hurried words and with much
excitable gesticulation poured forth his story.
"I must explain to you, Mr. Holmes, that to-morrow is the
first day of the examination for the Fortescue Scholarship. I am
one of the examiners. My subject is Greek, and the first of the
papers consists of a large passage of Greek translation which the
candidate has not seen. This passage is printed on the examina-
tion paper, and it would naturally be an immense advantage if
the candidate could prepare it in advance. For this reason, great
care is taken to keep the paper secret.
"To-day, about three o'clock, the proofs of this paper arrived
from the printers. The exercise consists of half a chapter of
Thucydides. I had to read it over carefully, as the text must be
absolutely correct. At four-thirty my task was not yet completed.
I had, however, promised to take tea in a friend's rooms, so I
left the proof upon my desk. I was absent rather more than an
hour.
"You are aware, Mr. Holmes, that our college doors are
double -- a green baize one within and a heavy oak one without.
As I approached my outer door, I was amazed to see a key in it.
For an instant I imagined that I had left my own there, but on
feeling in my pocket I found that it was all right. The only
duplicate which existed, so far as I knew, was that which
belonged to my servant, Bannister -- a man who has looked after
my room for ten years, and whose honesty is absolutely above
suspicion. I found that the key was indeed his, that he had
entered my room to know if I wanted tea, and that he had very
carelessly left the key in the door when he came out. His visit to
my room must have been within a very few minutes of my
leaving it. His forgetfulness about the key would have mattered
little upon any other occasion, but on this one day it has pro-
duced the most deplorable consequences.
"The moment I looked at my table, I was aware that someone
had rummaged among my papers. The proof was in three long
slips. I had left them all together. Now, I found that one of them
was lying on the floor, one was on the side table near the
window, and the third was where I had left it."
Holmes stirred for the first time.
"The first page on the floor, the second in the window, the
third where you left it," said he.
"Exactly, Mr. Holmes. You amaze me. How could you possi-
bly know that?"
"Pray continue your very interesting statement."
"For an instant I imagined that Bannister had taken the unpar-
donable liberty of examining my papers. He denied it, however,
with the utmost earnestness, and I am convinced that he was
speaking the truth. The alternative was that someone passing had
observed the key in the door, had known that I was out, and had
entered to look at the papers. A large sum of money is at stake,
for the scholarship is a very valuable one, and an unscrupulous
man might very well run a risk in order to gain an advantage
over his fellows.
"Bannister was very much upset by the incident. He had
nearly fainted when we found that the papers had undoubtedly
been tampered with. I gave him a little brandy and left him
collapsed in a chair, while I made a most careful examination of
the room. I soon saw that the intruder had left other traces of his
presence besides the rumpled papers. On the table in the window
were several shreds from a pencil which had been sharpened. A
broken tip of lead was lying there also. Evidently the rascal had
copied the paper in a great hurry, had broken his pencil, and had
been compelled to put a fresh point to it."
"Excellent!" said Holmes, who was recovering his good-
humour as his attention became more engrossed by the case.
"Fortune has been your friend."
"This was not all. I have a new writing-table with a fine
surface of red leather. I am prepared to swear, and so is Bannis-
ter, that it was smooth and unstained. Now I found a clean cut in
it about three inches long -- not a mere scratch, but a positive cut.
Not only this, but on the table I found a small ball of black
dough or clay, with specks of something which looks like saw-
dust in it. I am convinced that these marks were left by the man
who rifled the papers. There were no footmarks and no other
evidence as to his identity. I was at my wit's end, when suddenly
the happy thought occurred to me that you were in the town, and
I came straight round to put the matter into your hands. Do help
me, Mr. Holmes. You see my dilemma. Either I must find the
man or else the examination must be postponed until fresh papers
are prepared, and since this cannot be done without explanation,
there will ensue a hideous scandal, which will throw a cloud not
only on the college, but on the university. Above all things, I
desire to settle the matter quietly and discreetly."
"I shall be happy to look into it and to give you such advice
as I can," said Holmes, rising and putting on his overcoat.
"The case is not entirely devoid of interest. Had anyone visited
you in your room after the papers came to you?"
"Yes, young Daulat Ras, an Indian student, who lives on the
same stair, came in to ask me some particulars about the exami-
nation."
"For which he was entered?"
"Yes."
"And the papers were on your table?"
"To the best of my belief, they were rolled up."
"But might be recognized as proofs?"
"Possibly."
"No one else in your room?"
"No."
"Did anyone know that these proofs would be there?"
"No one save the printer."
"Did this man Bannister know?"
"No, certainly not. No one knew."
"Where is Bannister now?"
"He was very ill, poor fellow. I left him collapsed in the
chair. I was in such a hurry to come to you."
"You left your door open?"
"I locked up the papers first."
"Then it amounts to this, Mr. Soames: that, unless the Indian
student recognized the roll as being proofs, the man who tam-
pered with them came upon them accidentally without knowing
that they were there."
"So it seems to me."
Holmes gave an enigmatic smile.
"Well," said he. "let us go round. Not one of your cases.
Watson -- mental, not physical. All right; come if you want to.
Now, Mr. Soames -- at your disposal!"
The sitting-room of our client opened by a long, low, latticed
window on to the ancient lichen-tinted court of the old college.
A Gothic arched door led to a worn stone staircase. On the
ground floor was the tutor's room. Above were three students,
one on each story. It was already twilight when we reached the
scene of our problem. Holmes halted and looked earnestly at the
window. Then he approached it, and, standing on tiptoe with his
neck craned, he looked into the room.
"He must have entered through the door. There is no opening
except the one pane," said our learned guide.
"Dear me!" said Holmes, and he smiled in a singular way as
he glanced at our companion. "Well, if there is nothing to be
learned here, we had best go inside."
The lecturer unlocked the outer door and ushered us into his
room. We stood at the entrance while Holmes made an examina-
tion of the carpet.
"I am afraid there are no signs here," said he. "One could
hardly hope for any upon so dry a day. Your servant seems to
have quite recovered. You left him in a chair, you say. Which
chair?"
"By the window there."
"I see. Near this little table. You can come in now. I have
finished with the carpet. Let us take the little table first. Of
course, what has happened is very clear. The man entered and
took the papers, sheet by sheet, from the central table. He
carried them over to the window table, because from there he
could see if you came across the courtyard, and so could effect
an escape."
"As a matter of fact, he could not," said Soames, "for I
entered by the side door."
"Ah, that's good! Well, anyhow, that was in his mind. Let
me see the three strips. No finger impressions -- no! Well he
carried over this one first, and he copied it. How long wouid it
take him to do that, using every possible contraction? A quarter
of an hour, not less. Then he tossed it down and seized the next.
He was in the midst of that when your return caused him to make
a very hurried retreat -- very hurried, since he had not time to
replace the papers which would tell you that he had been there.
You were not aware of any hurrying feet on the stair as you
entered the outer door?"
"No, I can't say I was."
"Well, he wrote so furiously that he broke his pencil, and
had, as you observe, to sharpen it again. This is of interest,
Watson. The pencil was not an ordinary one. It was above the
usual size, with a soft lead, the outer colour was dark blue, the
maker's name was printed in silver lettering, and the piece
remaining is only about an inch and a half long. Look for such a
pencil, Mr. Soames, and you have got your man. When I add
that he possesses a large and very blunt knife, you have an
additional aid."
Mr. Soames was somewhat overwhelmed by this flood of
information. "I can follow the other points," said he, "but
really, in this matter of the length --"
Holmes held out a small chip with the letters NN and a space
of clear wood after them.
"You see?"
"No, I fear that even now --"
"Watson, I have always done you an injustice. There are
others. What could this NN be? It is at the end of a word. You
are aware that Johann Faber is the most common maker's name.
Is it not clear that there is just as much of the pencil left as
usually follows the Johann?" He held the small table sideways to
the electric light. "I was hoping that if the paper on which he
wrote was thin, some trace of it might come through upon this
polished surface. No, I see nothing. I don't think there is any-
thing more to be learned here. Now for the central table. This
small pellet is, I presume, the black, doughy mass you spoke of.
Roughly pyramidal in shape and hollowed out, I perceive. As
you say, there appear to be grains of sawdust in it. Dear me, this
is very interesting. And the cut -- a positive tear, I see. It began
with a thin scratch and ended in a jagged hole. I am much
indebted to you for directing my attention to this case, Mr.
Soames. Where does that door lead to?"
"To my bedroom."
"Have you been in it since your adventure?"
"No, I came straight away for you."
"I should like to have a glance round. What a charming,
old-fashioned room! Perhaps you will kindly wait a minute, until
I have examined the floor. No, I see nothing. What about this
curtain? You hang your clothes behind it. If anyone were forced
to conceal himself in this room he must do it there, since the bed
is too low and the wardrobe too shallow. No one there, I
suppose?"
As Holmes drew the curtain I was aware, from some little
rigidity and alertness of his attitude, that he was prepared for an
emergency. As a matter of fact, the drawn curtain disclosed
nothing but three or four suits of clothes hanging from a line of
pegs. Holmes turned away, and stooped suddenly to the floor.
"Halloa! What's this?" said he.
It was a small pyramid of black, putty-like stuff, exactly like
the one upon the table of the study. Holmes held it out on his
open palm in the glare of the electric light.
"Your visitor seems to have left traces in your bedroom as
well as in your sitting-room, Mr. Soames."
"What could he have wanted there?"
"I think it is clear enough. You came back by an unexpected
way, and so he had no warning until you were at the very door.
What could he do? He caught up everything which would betray
him, and he rushed into your bedroom to conceal himself."
"Good gracious, Mr. Holmes, do you mean to tell me that, all
the time I was talking to Bannister in this room, we had the man
prisoner if we had only known it?"
"So I read it."
"Surely there is another alternative, Mr. Holmes. I don't
know whether you observed my bedroom window?"
"Lattice-paned, lead framework, three separate windows, one
swinging on hinge, and large enough to admit a man."
"Exactly. And it looks out on an angle of the courtyard so as
to be partly invisible. The man might have effected his entrance
there, left traces as he passed through the bedroom, and finally,
finding the door open, have escaped that way."
Holmes shook his head impatiently.
"Let us be practical," said he. "I understand you to say that
there are three students who use this stair, and are in the habit of
passing your door?"
"Yes, there are."
"And they are all in for this examination?"
"Yes."
"Have you any reason to suspect any one of them more than
the others?"
Soames hesitated.
"It is a very delicate question." said he. "One hardly likes to
throw suspicion where there are no proofs."
"Let us hear the suspicions. I will look after the proofs."
"I will tell you, then, in a few words the character of the three
mcn who inhabit these rooms. The lower of the three is Gilchrist,
a fine scholar and athletc, plays in the Rugby team and the
cricket team for the college, and got his Blue for the hurdles and
the long jump. He is a fine, manly fellow. His father was the
notorious Sir Jabez Gilchrist, who ruined himself on the turf. My
scholar has been left very poor, but he is hard-working and
industrious. He will do well.
"The second floor is inhabited by Daulat Ras, the Indian. He
is a quiet, inscrutable fellow; as most of those Indians are. He is
well up in his work, though his Greek is his weak subject. He is
steady and methodical.
"The top floor belongs to Miles McLaren. He is a brilliant
fellow when he chooses to work -- one of the brightest intellects
of the university; but he is wayward, dissipated, and unprinci-
pled. He was nearly expelled over a card scandal in his first
year. He has been idling all this term, and he must look forward
with dread to the examination."
"Then it is he whom you suspect?"
"I dare not go so far as that. But, of the three, he is perhaps the
least unlikely."
"Exactly. Now, Mr. Soames, let us have a look at your
servant, Bannister."
He was a little, white-faced, clean-shaven, grizzly-haired fel-
low of fifty. He was still suffering from this sudden disturbance
of the quiet routine of his life. His plump face was twitching
with his nervousness, and his fingers could not keep still.
"We are investigating this unhappy business, Bannister," said
his master.
"Yes, sir."
"I understand," said Holmes, "that you left your key in the
door?"
"Yes, sir."
"Was it not very extraordinary that you should do this on the
very day when there were these papers inside?"
"It was most unfortunate. sir. But I have occasionally done
the same thing at other times."
"When did you enter the room?"
It was about half-past four. That is Mr. Soames's tea time."
"How long did you stay?"
"When I saw that he was absent. I withdrew at once."
"Did you look at these papers on the table?"
"No, sir certainly not."
"How came you to leave the key in the door?"
"I had the tea-tray in my hand. I thought I would come back
for the key. Then I forgot."
"Has the outer door a spring lock?"
"No, sir."
"Then it was open all the time?"
"Yes, sir."
"Anyone in the room could get out?"
"Yes, sir."
"When Mr. Soames returned and called for you, you were
very much disturbed?"
"Yes, sir. Such a thing has never happened during the many
years that I have been here. I nearly fainted, sir."
"So I understand. Where were you when you began to feel
bad?"
"Where was I, sir? Why, here, near the door."
"That is singular, because you sat down in that chair over
yonder near the corner. Why did you pass these other chairs?"
"I don't know, sir, it didn't matter to me where I sat."
"I really don't think he knew much about it, Mr. Holmes. He
was looking very bad -- quite ghastly."
"You stayed here when your master left?"
"Only for a minute or so. Then I locked the door and went to
my room."
"Whom do you suspect?"
"Oh, I would not venture to say, sir. I don't believe there is
any gentleman in this university who is capable of profiting by
such an action. No, sir, I'll not believe it."
"Thank you, that will do," said Holmes. "Oh, one more
word. You have not mentioned to any of the three gentlemen
whom you attend that anything is amiss?"
"No, sir -- not a word."
"You haven't seen any of them?"
"No, sir."
"Very good. Now, Mr. Soames, we will take a walk in the
quadrangle, if you please."
Three yellow squares of light shone above us in the gathering
gloom.
"Your three birds are all in their nests," said Holmes, looking
up. "Halloa! What's that? One of them seems restless enough."
It was the Indian, whose dark silhouette appeared suddenly
upon his blind. He was pacing swiftly up and down his room.
"I should like to have a peep at each of them," said Holmes.
"Is it possible?"
"No difficulty in the world," Soames answered. "This set of
rooms is quite the oldest in the college, and it is not unusual for
visitors to go over them. Come along, and I will personally
conduct you."
"No names, please!" said Holmes, as we knocked at Gilchrist's
door. A tall, flaxen-haired, slim young fellow opened it, and
made us welcome when he understood our errand. There were
some really curious pieces of mediaeval domestic architecture
within. Holmes was so charmed with one of them that he insisted
on drawing it in his notebook, broke his pencil, had to borrow
one from our host, and finally borrowed a knife to sharpen his
own. The same curious accident happened to him in the rooms of
the Indian -- a silent, little, hook-nosed fellow, who eyed us
askance, and was obviously glad when Holmes's architectural
studies had come to an end. I could not see that in either case
Holmes had come upon the clue for which he was searching.
Only at the third did our visit prove abortive. The outer door
would not open to our knock, and-nothing more substantial than
a torrent of bad language came from behind it. "I don't care who
you are. You can go to blazes!" roared the angry voice. "To-
morrow's the exam, and I won't be drawn by anyone."
"A rude fellow," said our guide, flushing with anger as we
withdrew down the stair. "Of course, he did not realize that it
was I who was knocking, but none the less his conduct was very
uncourteous, and, indeed, under the circumstances rather
suspicious."
Holmes's response was a curious one.
"Can you tell me his exact height?" he asked.
"Really, Mr. Holmes, I cannot undertake to say. He is taller
than the Indian, not so tall as Gilchrist. I suppose five foot six
would be about it."
"That is very important," said Holmes. "And now, Mr.
Soames, I wish you good-night."
Our guide cried aloud in his astonishment and dismay. "Good
gracious, Mr. Holmes, you are surely not going to leave me in
this abrupt fashion! You don't seem to realize the position.
To-morrow is the examination. I must take some definite action
to-night. I cannot allow the examination to be held if one of the
papers has been tampered with. The situation must be faced."
"You must leave it as it is. I shall drop round early to-morrow
morning and chat the matter over. It is possible that I may be in
a position then to indicate some course of action. Meanwhile,
you change nothing -- nothing at all."
"Very good, Mr. Holmes."
"You can be perfectly easy in your mind. We shall certainly
find some way out of your difficulties. I will take the black clay
with me, also the pencil cuttings. Good-bye."
When we were out in the darkness of the quadrangle, we again
looked up at the windows. The Indian still paced his room. The
others were invisible.
"Well, Watson, what do you think of it?" Holmes asked, as
we came out into the main street. "Quite a little parlour game --
sort of three-card trick, is it not? There are your three men. It
must be one of them. You take your choice. Which is yours?"
"The foul-mouthed fellow at the top. He is the one with the
worst record. And yet that Indian was a sly fellow also. Why
should he be pacing his room all the time?"
"There is nothing in that. Many men do it when they are
trying to learn anything by heart."
"He looked at us in a queer way."
"So would you, if a flock of strangers came in on you when
you were preparing for an examination next day, and every
moment was of value. No, I see nothing in that. Pencils, too,
and knives -- all was satisfactory. But that fellow does puzzle
me."
"Who?"
"Why, Bannister, the servant. What's his game in the matter?"
"He impressed me as being a perfectly honest man."
"So he did me. That's the puzzling part. Why should a
perfectly honest man -- Well, well, here's a large stationer's. We
shall begin our researches here."
There were only four stationers of any consequences in the
town, and at each Holmes produced his pencil chips, and bid
high for a duplicate. All were agreed that one could be ordered,
but that it was not a usual size of pencil, and that it was seldom
kept in stock. My friend did not appear to be depressed by his
failure, but shrugged his shoulders in half-humorous resignation.
"No good, my dear Watson. This, the best and only final
clue, has run to nothing. But, indeed, I have little doubt that we
can build up a sufficient case without it. By Jove! my dear
fellow, it is nearly nine, and the landlady babbled of green peas
at seven-thirty. What with your eternal tobacco, Watson, and
your irregularity at meals, I expect that you will get notice to
quit, and that I shall share your downfall -- not, however, before
we have solved the problem of the nervous tutor, the careless
servant, and the three enterprising students."
Holmes made no further allusion to the matter that day, though
he sat lost in thought for a long time after our belated dinner. At
eight in the morning, he came into my room just as I finished my
toilet.
"Well, Watson," said he, "it is time we went down to St.
Luke's. Can you do without breakfast?"
"Certainly."
"Soames will be in a dreadful fidget until we are able to tell
him something positive."
"Have you anything positive to tell him?"
"I think so."
"You have formed a conclusion?"
"Yes, my dear Watson, I have solved the mystery."
"But what fresh evidence could you have got?"
"Aha! It is not for nothing that I have turned myself out of
bed at the untimely hour of six. I have put in two hours' hard
work and covered at least five miles, with something to show for
it. Look at that!"
He held out his hand. On the palm were three little pyramids
of black, doughy clay.
"Why, Holmes, you had only two yesterday."
"And one more this morning. It is a fair argument that
wherever No. 3 came from is also the source of Nos. 1 and 2.
Eh, Watson? Well, come along and put friend Soames out of his
pain."
The unfortunate tutor was certainly in a state of pitiable agita-
tion when we found him in his chambers. In a few hours the
examination would commence, and he was still in the dilemma
between making the facts public and allowing the culprit to
compete for the valuable scholarship. He could hardly stand still,
so great was his mental agitation, and he ran towards Holmes
with two eager hands outstretched.
"Thank heaven that you have come! I feared that you had
given it up in despair. What am I to do? Shall the examination
proceed?"
"Yes, let it proceed, by all means."
"But this rascal?"
"He shall not compete."
"You know him?"
"I think so. If this matter is not to become public. we must
give ourselves certain powers and resolve ourselves into a small
private court-martial. You there, if you please, Soames! Watson
you here! I'll take the armchair in the middle. I think that we are
now sufficiently imposing to strike terror into a guilty breast.
Kindly ring the bell!"
Bannister entered, and shrank back in evident surprise and fear
at our judicial appearance.
"You will kindly close the door," said Holmes. "Now
Bannister, will you please tell us the truth about yesterday's
incident.'
The man turned white to the roots of his hair.
"I have told you everything, sir."
"Nothing to add?"
"Nothing at all, sir."
"Well, then, I must make some suggestions to you. When you
sat down on that chair yesterday, did you do so in order to
conceal some object which would have shown who had been in
the room?"
Bannister's face was ghastly.
"No, sir, certainly not."
"It is only a suggestion," said Holmes, suavely. "I frankly
admit that I am unable to prove it. But it seems probable enough
since the moment that Mr. Soames's back was turned, you
released the man who was hiding in that bedroom."
Bannister licked his dry lips.
"There was no man, sir."
"Ah, that's a pity, Bannister. Up to now you may have
spoken the truth, but now I know that you have lied."
The man's face set in sullen defiance.
"There was no man, sir."
"Come, come, Bannister!"
"No, sir, there was no one."
"In that case, you can give us no further information. Would
you please remain in the room? Stand over there near the bed-
room door. Now, Soames, I am going to ask you to have the
great kindness to go up to the room of young Gilchrist. and to
ask him to step down into yours."
An instant later the tutor returned, bringing with him the
student. He was a fine figure of a man, tall, lithe, and agile, with
a springy step and a pleasant, open face. His troubled blue eyes
glanced at each of us, and finally rested with an expression of
blank dismay upon Bannister in the farther corner.
"Just close the door," said Holmes. "Now, Mr. Gilchrist, we
are all quite alone here, and no one need ever know one word of
what passes between us. We can be perfectly frank with each
other. We want to know, Mr. Gilchrist, how you, an honourable
man, ever came to commit such an action as that of yesterday?"
The unfortunate young man staggered back, and cast a look
full of horror and reproach at Bannister.
"No, no, Mr. Gilchrist, sir, I never said a word -- never one
word!" cried the servant.
"No, but you have now," said Holmes. "Now, sir, you must
see that after Bannister's words your position is hopeless, and
that your only chance lies in a frank confession."
For a moment Gilchrist, with upraised hand, tried to control
his writhing features. The next he had thrown himself on his
knees beside the table, and burying his face in his hands, he had
burst into a storm of passionate sobbing.
"Come, come," said Holmes, kindly, "it is human to err,
and at least no one can accuse you of being a callous criminal.
Perhaps it would be easier for you if I were to tell Mr. Soames
what occurred, and you can check me where I am wrong. Shall I
do so? Well, well, don't trouble to answer. Listen, and see that I
do you no injustice.
"From the moment, Mr. Soames, that you said to me that no
one, not even Bannister, could have told that the papers were in
your room, the case began to take a definite shape in my mind.
The printer one could, of course, dismiss. He could examine the
papers in his own office. The Indian I also thought nothing of. If
the proofs were in a roll, he could not possibly know what they
were. On the other hand, it seemed an unthinkable coincidence
that a man should dare to enter the room, and that by chance on
that very day the papers were on the table. I dismissed that. The
man who entered knew that the papers were there. How did he
know?
"When I approached your room, I examined the window. You
amused me by supposing that I was contemplating the possibility
of someone having in broad daylight, under the eyes of all these
opposite rooms, forced himself through it. Such an idea was
absurd. I was measuring how tall a man would need to be in
order to see, as he passed, what papers were on the central table.
I am six feet high, and I could do it with an effort. No one less
than that would have a chance. Already you see I had reason to
think that, if one of your three students was a man of unusual
height, he was the most worth watching of the three.
"I entered, and I took you into my confidencc as to the
suggestions of the side table. Of the centre table I could make
nothing, until in your description of Gilchrist you mentioned that
he was a long-distance jumper. Then the whole thing came to me
in an instant, and I only needed certain corroborative proofs,
which I speedily obtained.
"What happened was this: This young fellow had employed
his afternoon at the athletic grounds, where he had been practis-
ing the jump. He returned carrying his jumping-shoes, which are
provided, as you are aware, with several sharp spikes. As he
passed your window he saw, by means of his great height, these
proofs upon your table, and conjectured what they were. No
harm would have been done had it not been that, as he passed
your door, he perceived the key which had been left by the
carelessness of your servant. A sudden impulse came over him to
enter, and see if they were indeed the proofs. It was not a
dangerous exploit, for he could always pretend that he had simply
looked in to ask a question.
"Well, when he saw that they were indeed the proofs, it was
then that he yielded to temptation. He put his shoes on the table.
What was it you put on that chair near the window?"
"Gloves," said the young man.
Holmes looked triumphantly at Bannister. "He put his gloves
on the chair, and he took the proofs, sheet by sheet, to copy
them. He thought the tutor must return by the main gate, and that
he would see him. As we know, he came back by the side gate.
Suddenly he heard him at the very door. There was no possible
escape. He forgot his gloves, but he caught up his shoes and
darted into the bedroom. You observe that the scratch on that
table is slight at one side, but deepens in the direction of the
bedroom door. That in itself is enough to show us that the shoe
had been drawn in that direction, and that the culprit had taken
refuge there. The earth round the spike had been left on the
table, and a second sample was loosened and fell in the bed-
room. I may add that I walked out to the athletic grounds this
morning, saw that tenacious black clay is used in the jumping-
pit, and carried away a specimen of it, together with some of the
fine tan or sawdust which is strewn over it to prevent the athlete
from slipping. Have I told the truth, Mr. Gilchrist?"
The student had drawn himself erect.
"Yes, sir, it is true," said he.
"Good heavens! have you nothing to add?" cried Soames.
"Yes, sir, I have, but the shock of this disgraceful exposure
has bewildered me. I have a letter here, Mr. Soames, which I
wrote to you early this morning in the middle of a restless night.
It was before I knew that my sin had found me out. Here it is,
sir. You will see that I have said, 'I have determined not to go
in for the examination. I have been offered a commission in
the Rhodesian Police, and I am going out to South Africa at
once.' "
"I am indeed pleased to hear that you did not intend to profit
by your unfair advantage," said Soames. "But why did you
change your purpose?"
Gilchrist pointed to Bannister.
"There is the man who set me in the right path," said he.
"Come now, Bannister," said Holmes. "It will be clear to
you, from what I have said, that only you could have let this
young man out, since you were left in the room, and must have
locked the door when you went out. As to his escaping by that
window, it was incredible. Can you not clear up the last point in
this mystery, and tell us the reasons for your action?"
"It was simple enough, sir, if you only had known, but, with
all your cleverness, it was impossible that you could know. Time
was, sir, when I was butler to old Sir Jabez Gilchrist, this young
gentleman's father. When he was ruined I came to the college as
servant, but I never forgot my old employer because he was
down in the world. I watched his son all I could for the sake of
the old days. Well, sir, when I came into this room yesterday,
when the alarm was given, the very first thing I saw was Mr.
Gilchrist's tan gloves a-lying in that chair. I knew those gloves
well, and I understood their message. If Mr. Soames saw them,
the game was up. I flopped down into that chair, and nothing
would budge me until Mr. Soames went for you. Then out came
my poor young master, whom I had dandled on my knee, and
confessed it all to me. Wasn't it natural, sir, that I should save
him, and wasn't it natural also that I should try to speak to him
as his dead father would have done, and make him understand
that he could not profit by such a deed? Could you blame me,
sir?"
"No, indeed," said Holmes, heartily, springing to his feet.
"Well, Soames, I think we have cleared your little problem up,
and our breakfast awaits us at home. Come, Watson! As to you,
sir, I trust that a bright future awaits you in Rhodesia. For once
you have fallen low. Let us see, in the future, how high you can
rise."



Date:  03-09-89  20:46
From:  Staeorra Rokraven


THE CLOUD SCULPTORS

-

The air finds flight in forms of lofty wind

As one with nature's children taking part

And soaring up to go and find a friend

Then join with water spinning wispy art.

-

This nature's process has eternal known

The way to hang up on the sky these drapes

But wonder not how these soft clouds have grown

From fleecy strand filled webs to take their shapes?

-

Perhaps the artist's brush a thing unseen

With living tools the Elder Gods express

Those firey ones whose scales and talons gleam

To grace the heavens with their soft caress.

-

Now see the strokes of carving wings along

With falling rain - the strains of Dragon song.

-----     9 March 1989     -----



A DREAMING DESIRE

-

A spark comes coiling to the edge of sleep

From realms arcane which have become unknown

And from this psychic well does beauty leap

A vision cherished for to call my own.

-

This wispy strand now takes it's shape in fire

And fueled by sources boldly to enchant

Then forming curves from wish of heart's desire

A Woman's eyes all graced with Elvish slant.

-

The shield maid's arms then reach and wanting clasp

We intertwine within her streaming hair

Then sighing voices send a heartfelt gasp

As fragrance heralds tawny skin now bare'd.

-

This honored Lady may in shadows walk

But fate may someday find my heart unlock.

-----     9 March 1989     -----



TO THE BONFIRES

-

A circle gathered round a roaring pit

All joining hands to bask within it's glow

And under Moon crowned sky all starry lit

We sing and praise the Power's shadowed flow.

-

For some the flames form dancing Dragon's wing

And other smoke wrought visions climb the air

For all a caring closeness will this bring

And psychic current bonding hearts to share.

-

We charge this timeless place between the worlds

To call the Goddess' love within our hearts

And join with her our joyous souls unfurled

Our spirits dance with her by ancient arts.

-

This night forever captured in this glade

To see old souls re-met and friendships made.

-----     9 March 1989     -----

-  J.A. Bordeaux  (S.R.)  -


:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:
-----=====Earth's Dreamlands=====-----
(313)558-5024 {14.4} (313)558-5517
A BBS for text file junkies
RPGNet GM File Archive Site
.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.

The Adventure of the Three Students

It was in the year '95 that a combination of events, into which I
need not enter, caused Mr. Sherlock Holmes and myself to spend
some weeks in one of our great university towns, and it was
during this time that the small but instructive adventure which I
am about to relate befell us. It will be obvious that any details
which would help the reader exactly to identify the college or the
criminal would be injudicious and offensive. So painful a scan-
dal may well be allowed to die out. With due discretion the
incident itself may, however, be described, since it serves to
illustrate some of those qualities for which my friend was re-
markable. I will endeavour, in my statement, to avoid such terms
as would serve to limit the events to any particular place, or give
a clue as to the people concerned.
We were residing at the time in furnished lodgings close to a
library where Sherlock Holmes was pursuing some laborious
researches in early English charters -- researches which led to
results so striking that they may be the subject of one of my
future narratives. Here it was that one evening we received a
visit from an acquaintance, Mr. Hilton Soames, tutor and lec-
turer at the College of St. Luke's. Mr. Soames was a tall, spare
man, of a nervous and excitable temperament. I had always
known him to be restless in his manner, but on this particular
occasion he was in such a state of uncontrollable agitation that it
was clear something very unusual had occurred.
"I trust, Mr. Holmes, that you can spare me a few hours of
your valuable time. We have had a very painful incident at St.
Luke's, and really, but for the happy chance of your being in
town, I should have been at a loss what to do."
"I am very busy just now, and I desire no distractions," my
friend answered. "I should much prefer that you called in the aid
of the police."
"No, no, my dear sir; such a course is utterly impossible.
When once the law is evoked it cannot be stayed again, and this
is just one of those cases where, for the credit of the college, it is
most essential to avoid scandal. Your discretion is as well known
as your powers, and you are the one man in the world who can
help me. I beg you, Mr. Holmes, to do what you can."
My friend's temper had not improved since he had been
deprived of the congenial surroundings of Baker Street. Without
his scrapbooks, his chemicals, and his homely untidiness, he was
an uncomfortable man. He shrugged his shoulders in ungracious
acquiescence, while our visitor in hurried words and with much
excitable gesticulation poured forth his story.
"I must explain to you, Mr. Holmes, that to-morrow is the
first day of the examination for the Fortescue Scholarship. I am
one of the examiners. My subject is Greek, and the first of the
papers consists of a large passage of Greek translation which the
candidate has not seen. This passage is printed on the examina-
tion paper, and it would naturally be an immense advantage if
the candidate could prepare it in advance. For this reason, great
care is taken to keep the paper secret.
"To-day, about three o'clock, the proofs of this paper arrived
from the printers. The exercise consists of half a chapter of
Thucydides. I had to read it over carefully, as the text must be
absolutely correct. At four-thirty my task was not yet completed.
I had, however, promised to take tea in a friend's rooms, so I
left the proof upon my desk. I was absent rather more than an
hour.
"You are aware, Mr. Holmes, that our college doors are
double -- a green baize one within and a heavy oak one without.
As I approached my outer door, I was amazed to see a key in it.
For an instant I imagined that I had left my own there, but on
feeling in my pocket I found that it was all right. The only
duplicate which existed, so far as I knew, was that which
belonged to my servant, Bannister -- a man who has looked after
my room for ten years, and whose honesty is absolutely above
suspicion. I found that the key was indeed his, that he had
entered my room to know if I wanted tea, and that he had very
carelessly left the key in the door when he came out. His visit to
my room must have been within a very few minutes of my
leaving it. His forgetfulness about the key would have mattered
little upon any other occasion, but on this one day it has pro-
duced the most deplorable consequences.
"The moment I looked at my table, I was aware that someone
had rummaged among my papers. The proof was in three long
slips. I had left them all together. Now, I found that one of them
was lying on the floor, one was on the side table near the
window, and the third was where I had left it."
Holmes stirred for the first time.
"The first page on the floor, the second in the window, the
third where you left it," said he.
"Exactly, Mr. Holmes. You amaze me. How could you possi-
bly know that?"
"Pray continue your very interesting statement."
"For an instant I imagined that Bannister had taken the unpar-
donable liberty of examining my papers. He denied it, however,
with the utmost earnestness, and I am convinced that he was
speaking the truth. The alternative was that someone passing had
observed the key in the door, had known that I was out, and had
entered to look at the papers. A large sum of money is at stake,
for the scholarship is a very valuable one, and an unscrupulous
man might very well run a risk in order to gain an advantage
over his fellows.
"Bannister was very much upset by the incident. He had
nearly fainted when we found that the papers had undoubtedly
been tampered with. I gave him a little brandy and left him
collapsed in a chair, while I made a most careful examination of
the room. I soon saw that the intruder had left other traces of his
presence besides the rumpled papers. On the table in the window
were several shreds from a pencil which had been sharpened. A
broken tip of lead was lying there also. Evidently the rascal had
copied the paper in a great hurry, had broken his pencil, and had
been compelled to put a fresh point to it."
"Excellent!" said Holmes, who was recovering his good-
humour as his attention became more engrossed by the case.
"Fortune has been your friend."
"This was not all. I have a new writing-table with a fine
surface of red leather. I am prepared to swear, and so is Bannis-
ter, that it was smooth and unstained. Now I found a clean cut in
it about three inches long -- not a mere scratch, but a positive cut.
Not only this, but on the table I found a small ball of black
dough or clay, with specks of something which looks like saw-
dust in it. I am convinced that these marks were left by the man
who rifled the papers. There were no footmarks and no other
evidence as to his identity. I was at my wit's end, when suddenly
the happy thought occurred to me that you were in the town, and
I came straight round to put the matter into your hands. Do help
me, Mr. Holmes. You see my dilemma. Either I must find the
man or else the examination must be postponed until fresh papers
are prepared, and since this cannot be done without explanation,
there will ensue a hideous scandal, which will throw a cloud not
only on the college, but on the university. Above all things, I
desire to settle the matter quietly and discreetly."
"I shall be happy to look into it and to give you such advice
as I can," said Holmes, rising and putting on his overcoat.
"The case is not entirely devoid of interest. Had anyone visited
you in your room after the papers came to you?"
"Yes, young Daulat Ras, an Indian student, who lives on the
same stair, came in to ask me some particulars about the exami-
nation."
"For which he was entered?"
"Yes."
"And the papers were on your table?"
"To the best of my belief, they were rolled up."
"But might be recognized as proofs?"
"Possibly."
"No one else in your room?"
"No."
"Did anyone know that these proofs would be there?"
"No one save the printer."
"Did this man Bannister know?"
"No, certainly not. No one knew."
"Where is Bannister now?"
"He was very ill, poor fellow. I left him collapsed in the
chair. I was in such a hurry to come to you."
"You left your door open?"
"I locked up the papers first."
"Then it amounts to this, Mr. Soames: that, unless the Indian
student recognized the roll as being proofs, the man who tam-
pered with them came upon them accidentally without knowing
that they were there."
"So it seems to me."
Holmes gave an enigmatic smile.
"Well," said he. "let us go round. Not one of your cases.
Watson -- mental, not physical. All right; come if you want to.
Now, Mr. Soames -- at your disposal!"
The sitting-room of our client opened by a long, low, latticed
window on to the ancient lichen-tinted court of the old college.
A Gothic arched door led to a worn stone staircase. On the
ground floor was the tutor's room. Above were three students,
one on each story. It was already twilight when we reached the
scene of our problem. Holmes halted and looked earnestly at the
window. Then he approached it, and, standing on tiptoe with his
neck craned, he looked into the room.
"He must have entered through the door. There is no opening
except the one pane," said our learned guide.
"Dear me!" said Holmes, and he smiled in a singular way as
he glanced at our companion. "Well, if there is nothing to be
learned here, we had best go inside."
The lecturer unlocked the outer door and ushered us into his
room. We stood at the entrance while Holmes made an examina-
tion of the carpet.
"I am afraid there are no signs here," said he. "One could
hardly hope for any upon so dry a day. Your servant seems to
have quite recovered. You left him in a chair, you say. Which
chair?"
"By the window there."
"I see. Near this little table. You can come in now. I have
finished with the carpet. Let us take the little table first. Of
course, what has happened is very clear. The man entered and
took the papers, sheet by sheet, from the central table. He
carried them over to the window table, because from there he
could see if you came across the courtyard, and so could effect
an escape."
"As a matter of fact, he could not," said Soames, "for I
entered by the side door."
"Ah, that's good! Well, anyhow, that was in his mind. Let
me see the three strips. No finger impressions -- no! Well he
carried over this one first, and he copied it. How long wouid it
take him to do that, using every possible contraction? A quarter
of an hour, not less. Then he tossed it down and seized the next.
He was in the midst of that when your return caused him to make
a very hurried retreat -- very hurried, since he had not time to
replace the papers which would tell you that he had been there.
You were not aware of any hurrying feet on the stair as you
entered the outer door?"
"No, I can't say I was."
"Well, he wrote so furiously that he broke his pencil, and
had, as you observe, to sharpen it again. This is of interest,
Watson. The pencil was not an ordinary one. It was above the
usual size, with a soft lead, the outer colour was dark blue, the
maker's name was printed in silver lettering, and the piece
remaining is only about an inch and a half long. Look for such a
pencil, Mr. Soames, and you have got your man. When I add
that he possesses a large and very blunt knife, you have an
additional aid."
Mr. Soames was somewhat overwhelmed by this flood of
information. "I can follow the other points," said he, "but
really, in this matter of the length --"
Holmes held out a small chip with the letters NN and a space
of clear wood after them.
"You see?"
"No, I fear that even now --"
"Watson, I have always done you an injustice. There are
others. What could this NN be? It is at the end of a word. You
are aware that Johann Faber is the most common maker's name.
Is it not clear that there is just as much of the pencil left as
usually follows the Johann?" He held the small table sideways to
the electric light. "I was hoping that if the paper on which he
wrote was thin, some trace of it might come through upon this
polished surface. No, I see nothing. I don't think there is any-
thing more to be learned here. Now for the central table. This
small pellet is, I presume, the black, doughy mass you spoke of.
Roughly pyramidal in shape and hollowed out, I perceive. As
you say, there appear to be grains of sawdust in it. Dear me, this
is very interesting. And the cut -- a positive tear, I see. It began
with a thin scratch and ended in a jagged hole. I am much
indebted to you for directing my attention to this case, Mr.
Soames. Where does that door lead to?"
"To my bedroom."
"Have you been in it since your adventure?"
"No, I came straight away for you."
"I should like to have a glance round. What a charming,
old-fashioned room! Perhaps you will kindly wait a minute, until
I have examined the floor. No, I see nothing. What about this
curtain? You hang your clothes behind it. If anyone were forced
to conceal himself in this room he must do it there, since the bed
is too low and the wardrobe too shallow. No one there, I
suppose?"
As Holmes drew the curtain I was aware, from some little
rigidity and alertness of his attitude, that he was prepared for an
emergency. As a matter of fact, the drawn curtain disclosed
nothing but three or four suits of clothes hanging from a line of
pegs. Holmes turned away, and stooped suddenly to the floor.
"Halloa! What's this?" said he.
It was a small pyramid of black, putty-like stuff, exactly like
the one upon the table of the study. Holmes held it out on his
open palm in the glare of the electric light.
"Your visitor seems to have left traces in your bedroom as
well as in your sitting-room, Mr. Soames."
"What could he have wanted there?"
"I think it is clear enough. You came back by an unexpected
way, and so he had no warning until you were at the very door.
What could he do? He caught up everything which would betray
him, and he rushed into your bedroom to conceal himself."
"Good gracious, Mr. Holmes, do you mean to tell me that, all
the time I was talking to Bannister in this room, we had the man
prisoner if we had only known it?"
"So I read it."
"Surely there is another alternative, Mr. Holmes. I don't
know whether you observed my bedroom window?"
"Lattice-paned, lead framework, three separate windows, one
swinging on hinge, and large enough to admit a man."
"Exactly. And it looks out on an angle of the courtyard so as
to be partly invisible. The man might have effected his entrance
there, left traces as he passed through the bedroom, and finally,
finding the door open, have escaped that way."
Holmes shook his head impatiently.
"Let us be practical," said he. "I understand you to say that
there are three students who use this stair, and are in the habit of
passing your door?"
"Yes, there are."
"And they are all in for this examination?"
"Yes."
"Have you any reason to suspect any one of them more than
the others?"
Soames hesitated.
"It is a very delicate question." said he. "One hardly likes to
throw suspicion where there are no proofs."
"Let us hear the suspicions. I will look after the proofs."
"I will tell you, then, in a few words the character of the three
mcn who inhabit these rooms. The lower of the three is Gilchrist,
a fine scholar and athletc, plays in the Rugby team and the
cricket team for the college, and got his Blue for the hurdles and
the long jump. He is a fine, manly fellow. His father was the
notorious Sir Jabez Gilchrist, who ruined himself on the turf. My
scholar has been left very poor, but he is hard-working and
industrious. He will do well.
"The second floor is inhabited by Daulat Ras, the Indian. He
is a quiet, inscrutable fellow; as most of those Indians are. He is
well up in his work, though his Greek is his weak subject. He is
steady and methodical.
"The top floor belongs to Miles McLaren. He is a brilliant
fellow when he chooses to work -- one of the brightest intellects
of the university; but he is wayward, dissipated, and unprinci-
pled. He was nearly expelled over a card scandal in his first
year. He has been idling all this term, and he must look forward
with dread to the examination."
"Then it is he whom you suspect?"
"I dare not go so far as that. But, of the three, he is perhaps the
least unlikely."
"Exactly. Now, Mr. Soames, let us have a look at your
servant, Bannister."
He was a little, white-faced, clean-shaven, grizzly-haired fel-
low of fifty. He was still suffering from this sudden disturbance
of the quiet routine of his life. His plump face was twitching
with his nervousness, and his fingers could not keep still.
"We are investigating this unhappy business, Bannister," said
his master.
"Yes, sir."
"I understand," said Holmes, "that you left your key in the
door?"
"Yes, sir."
"Was it not very extraordinary that you should do this on the
very day when there were these papers inside?"
"It was most unfortunate. sir. But I have occasionally done
the same thing at other times."
"When did you enter the room?"
It was about half-past four. That is Mr. Soames's tea time."
"How long did you stay?"
"When I saw that he was absent. I withdrew at once."
"Did you look at these papers on the table?"
"No, sir certainly not."
"How came you to leave the key in the door?"
"I had the tea-tray in my hand. I thought I would come back
for the key. Then I forgot."
"Has the outer door a spring lock?"
"No, sir."
"Then it was open all the time?"
"Yes, sir."
"Anyone in the room could get out?"
"Yes, sir."
"When Mr. Soames returned and called for you, you were
very much disturbed?"
"Yes, sir. Such a thing has never happened during the many
years that I have been here. I nearly fainted, sir."
"So I understand. Where were you when you began to feel
bad?"
"Where was I, sir? Why, here, near the door."
"That is singular, because you sat down in that chair over
yonder near the corner. Why did you pass these other chairs?"
"I don't know, sir, it didn't matter to me where I sat."
"I really don't think he knew much about it, Mr. Holmes. He
was looking very bad -- quite ghastly."
"You stayed here when your master left?"
"Only for a minute or so. Then I locked the door and went to
my room."
"Whom do you suspect?"
"Oh, I would not venture to say, sir. I don't believe there is
any gentleman in this university who is capable of profiting by
such an action. No, sir, I'll not believe it."
"Thank you, that will do," said Holmes. "Oh, one more
word. You have not mentioned to any of the three gentlemen
whom you attend that anything is amiss?"
"No, sir -- not a word."
"You haven't seen any of them?"
"No, sir."
"Very good. Now, Mr. Soames, we will take a walk in the
quadrangle, if you please."
Three yellow squares of light shone above us in the gathering
gloom.
"Your three birds are all in their nests," said Holmes, looking
up. "Halloa! What's that? One of them seems restless enough."
It was the Indian, whose dark silhouette appeared suddenly
upon his blind. He was pacing swiftly up and down his room.
"I should like to have a peep at each of them," said Holmes.
"Is it possible?"
"No difficulty in the world," Soames answered. "This set of
rooms is quite the oldest in the college, and it is not unusual for
visitors to go over them. Come along, and I will personally
conduct you."
"No names, please!" said Holmes, as we knocked at Gilchrist's
door. A tall, flaxen-haired, slim young fellow opened it, and
made us welcome when he understood our errand. There were
some really curious pieces of mediaeval domestic architecture
within. Holmes was so charmed with one of them that he insisted
on drawing it in his notebook, broke his pencil, had to borrow
one from our host, and finally borrowed a knife to sharpen his
own. The same curious accident happened to him in the rooms of
the Indian -- a silent, little, hook-nosed fellow, who eyed us
askance, and was obviously glad when Holmes's architectural
studies had come to an end. I could not see that in either case
Holmes had come upon the clue for which he was searching.
Only at the third did our visit prove abortive. The outer door
would not open to our knock, and-nothing more substantial than
a torrent of bad language came from behind it. "I don't care who
you are. You can go to blazes!" roared the angry voice. "To-
morrow's the exam, and I won't be drawn by anyone."
"A rude fellow," said our guide, flushing with anger as we
withdrew down the stair. "Of course, he did not realize that it
was I who was knocking, but none the less his conduct was very
uncourteous, and, indeed, under the circumstances rather
suspicious."
Holmes's response was a curious one.
"Can you tell me his exact height?" he asked.
"Really, Mr. Holmes, I cannot undertake to say. He is taller
than the Indian, not so tall as Gilchrist. I suppose five foot six
would be about it."
"That is very important," said Holmes. "And now, Mr.
Soames, I wish you good-night."
Our guide cried aloud in his astonishment and dismay. "Good
gracious, Mr. Holmes, you are surely not going to leave me in
this abrupt fashion! You don't seem to realize the position.
To-morrow is the examination. I must take some definite action
to-night. I cannot allow the examination to be held if one of the
papers has been tampered with. The situation must be faced."
"You must leave it as it is. I shall drop round early to-morrow
morning and chat the matter over. It is possible that I may be in
a position then to indicate some course of action. Meanwhile,
you change nothing -- nothing at all."
"Very good, Mr. Holmes."
"You can be perfectly easy in your mind. We shall certainly
find some way out of your difficulties. I will take the black clay
with me, also the pencil cuttings. Good-bye."
When we were out in the darkness of the quadrangle, we again
looked up at the windows. The Indian still paced his room. The
others were invisible.
"Well, Watson, what do you think of it?" Holmes asked, as
we came out into the main street. "Quite a little parlour game --
sort of three-card trick, is it not? There are your three men. It
must be one of them. You take your choice. Which is yours?"
"The foul-mouthed fellow at the top. He is the one with the
worst record. And yet that Indian was a sly fellow also. Why
should he be pacing his room all the time?"
"There is nothing in that. Many men do it when they are
trying to learn anything by heart."
"He looked at us in a queer way."
"So would you, if a flock of strangers came in on you when
you were preparing for an examination next day, and every
moment was of value. No, I see nothing in that. Pencils, too,
and knives -- all was satisfactory. But that fellow does puzzle
me."
"Who?"
"Why, Bannister, the servant. What's his game in the matter?"
"He impressed me as being a perfectly honest man."
"So he did me. That's the puzzling part. Why should a
perfectly honest man -- Well, well, here's a large stationer's. We
shall begin our researches here."
There were only four stationers of any consequences in the
town, and at each Holmes produced his pencil chips, and bid
high for a duplicate. All were agreed that one could be ordered,
but that it was not a usual size of pencil, and that it was seldom
kept in stock. My friend did not appear to be depressed by his
failure, but shrugged his shoulders in half-humorous resignation.
"No good, my dear Watson. This, the best and only final
clue, has run to nothing. But, indeed, I have little doubt that we
can build up a sufficient case without it. By Jove! my dear
fellow, it is nearly nine, and the landlady babbled of green peas
at seven-thirty. What with your eternal tobacco, Watson, and
your irregularity at meals, I expect that you will get notice to
quit, and that I shall share your downfall -- not, however, before
we have solved the problem of the nervous tutor, the careless
servant, and the three enterprising students."
Holmes made no further allusion to the matter that day, though
he sat lost in thought for a long time after our belated dinner. At
eight in the morning, he came into my room just as I finished my
toilet.
"Well, Watson," said he, "it is time we went down to St.
Luke's. Can you do without breakfast?"
"Certainly."
"Soames will be in a dreadful fidget until we are able to tell
him something positive."
"Have you anything positive to tell him?"
"I think so."
"You have formed a conclusion?"
"Yes, my dear Watson, I have solved the mystery."
"But what fresh evidence could you have got?"
"Aha! It is not for nothing that I have turned myself out of
bed at the untimely hour of six. I have put in two hours' hard
work and covered at least five miles, with something to show for
it. Look at that!"
He held out his hand. On the palm were three little pyramids
of black, doughy clay.
"Why, Holmes, you had only two yesterday."
"And one more this morning. It is a fair argument that
wherever No. 3 came from is also the source of Nos. 1 and 2.
Eh, Watson? Well, come along and put friend Soames out of his
pain."
The unfortunate tutor was certainly in a state of pitiable agita-
tion when we found him in his chambers. In a few hours the
examination would commence, and he was still in the dilemma
between making the facts public and allowing the culprit to
compete for the valuable scholarship. He could hardly stand still,
so great was his mental agitation, and he ran towards Holmes
with two eager hands outstretched.
"Thank heaven that you have come! I feared that you had
given it up in despair. What am I to do? Shall the examination
proceed?"
"Yes, let it proceed, by all means."
"But this rascal?"
"He shall not compete."
"You know him?"
"I think so. If this matter is not to become public. we must
give ourselves certain powers and resolve ourselves into a small
private court-martial. You there, if you please, Soames! Watson
you here! I'll take the armchair in the middle. I think that we are
now sufficiently imposing to strike terror into a guilty breast.
Kindly ring the bell!"
Bannister entered, and shrank back in evident surprise and fear
at our judicial appearance.
"You will kindly close the door," said Holmes. "Now
Bannister, will you please tell us the truth about yesterday's
incident.'
The man turned white to the roots of his hair.
"I have told you everything, sir."
"Nothing to add?"
"Nothing at all, sir."
"Well, then, I must make some suggestions to you. When you
sat down on that chair yesterday, did you do so in order to
conceal some object which would have shown who had been in
the room?"
Bannister's face was ghastly.
"No, sir, certainly not."
"It is only a suggestion," said Holmes, suavely. "I frankly
admit that I am unable to prove it. But it seems probable enough
since the moment that Mr. Soames's back was turned, you
released the man who was hiding in that bedroom."
Bannister licked his dry lips.
"There was no man, sir."
"Ah, that's a pity, Bannister. Up to now you may have
spoken the truth, but now I know that you have lied."
The man's face set in sullen defiance.
"There was no man, sir."
"Come, come, Bannister!"
"No, sir, there was no one."
"In that case, you can give us no further information. Would
you please remain in the room? Stand over there near the bed-
room door. Now, Soames, I am going to ask you to have the
great kindness to go up to the room of young Gilchrist. and to
ask him to step down into yours."
An instant later the tutor returned, bringing with him the
student. He was a fine figure of a man, tall, lithe, and agile, with
a springy step and a pleasant, open face. His troubled blue eyes
glanced at each of us, and finally rested with an expression of
blank dismay upon Bannister in the farther corner.
"Just close the door," said Holmes. "Now, Mr. Gilchrist, we
are all quite alone here, and no one need ever know one word of
what passes between us. We can be perfectly frank with each
other. We want to know, Mr. Gilchrist, how you, an honourable
man, ever came to commit such an action as that of yesterday?"
The unfortunate young man staggered back, and cast a look
full of horror and reproach at Bannister.
"No, no, Mr. Gilchrist, sir, I never said a word -- never one
word!" cried the servant.
"No, but you have now," said Holmes. "Now, sir, you must
see that after Bannister's words your position is hopeless, and
that your only chance lies in a frank confession."
For a moment Gilchrist, with upraised hand, tried to control
his writhing features. The next he had thrown himself on his
knees beside the table, and burying his face in his hands, he had
burst into a storm of passionate sobbing.
"Come, come," said Holmes, kindly, "it is human to err,
and at least no one can accuse you of being a callous criminal.
Perhaps it would be easier for you if I were to tell Mr. Soames
what occurred, and you can check me where I am wrong. Shall I
do so? Well, well, don't trouble to answer. Listen, and see that I
do you no injustice.
"From the moment, Mr. Soames, that you said to me that no
one, not even Bannister, could have told that the papers were in
your room, the case began to take a definite shape in my mind.
The printer one could, of course, dismiss. He could examine the
papers in his own office. The Indian I also thought nothing of. If
the proofs were in a roll, he could not possibly know what they
were. On the other hand, it seemed an unthinkable coincidence
that a man should dare to enter the room, and that by chance on
that very day the papers were on the table. I dismissed that. The
man who entered knew that the papers were there. How did he
know?
"When I approached your room, I examined the window. You
amused me by supposing that I was contemplating the possibility
of someone having in broad daylight, under the eyes of all these
opposite rooms, forced himself through it. Such an idea was
absurd. I was measuring how tall a man would need to be in
order to see, as he passed, what papers were on the central table.
I am six feet high, and I could do it with an effort. No one less
than that would have a chance. Already you see I had reason to
think that, if one of your three students was a man of unusual
height, he was the most worth watching of the three.
"I entered, and I took you into my confidencc as to the
suggestions of the side table. Of the centre table I could make
nothing, until in your description of Gilchrist you mentioned that
he was a long-distance jumper. Then the whole thing came to me
in an instant, and I only needed certain corroborative proofs,
which I speedily obtained.
"What happened was this: This young fellow had employed
his afternoon at the athletic grounds, where he had been practis-
ing the jump. He returned carrying his jumping-shoes, which are
provided, as you are aware, with several sharp spikes. As he
passed your window he saw, by means of his great height, these
proofs upon your table, and conjectured what they were. No
harm would have been done had it not been that, as he passed
your door, he perceived the key which had been left by the
carelessness of your servant. A sudden impulse came over him to
enter, and see if they were indeed the proofs. It was not a
dangerous exploit, for he could always pretend that he had simply
looked in to ask a question.
"Well, when he saw that they were indeed the proofs, it was
then that he yielded to temptation. He put his shoes on the table.
What was it you put on that chair near the window?"
"Gloves," said the young man.
Holmes looked triumphantly at Bannister. "He put his gloves
on the chair, and he took the proofs, sheet by sheet, to copy
them. He thought the tutor must return by the main gate, and that
he would see him. As we know, he came back by the side gate.
Suddenly he heard him at the very door. There was no possible
escape. He forgot his gloves, but he caught up his shoes and
darted into the bedroom. You observe that the scratch on that
table is slight at one side, but deepens in the direction of the
bedroom door. That in itself is enough to show us that the shoe
had been drawn in that direction, and that the culprit had taken
refuge there. The earth round the spike had been left on the
table, and a second sample was loosened and fell in the bed-
room. I may add that I walked out to the athletic grounds this
morning, saw that tenacious black clay is used in the jumping-
pit, and carried away a specimen of it, together with some of the
fine tan or sawdust which is strewn over it to prevent the athlete
from slipping. Have I told the truth, Mr. Gilchrist?"
The student had drawn himself erect.
"Yes, sir, it is true," said he.
"Good heavens! have you nothing to add?" cried Soames.
"Yes, sir, I have, but the shock of this disgraceful exposure
has bewildered me. I have a letter here, Mr. Soames, which I
wrote to you early this morning in the middle of a restless night.
It was before I knew that my sin had found me out. Here it is,
sir. You will see that I have said, 'I have determined not to go
in for the examination. I have been offered a commission in
the Rhodesian Police, and I am going out to South Africa at
once.' "
"I am indeed pleased to hear that you did not intend to profit
by your unfair advantage," said Soames. "But why did you
change your purpose?"
Gilchrist pointed to Bannister.
"There is the man who set me in the right path," said he.
"Come now, Bannister," said Holmes. "It will be clear to
you, from what I have said, that only you could have let this
young man out, since you were left in the room, and must have
locked the door when you went out. As to his escaping by that
window, it was incredible. Can you not clear up the last point in
this mystery, and tell us the reasons for your action?"
"It was simple enough, sir, if you only had known, but, with
all your cleverness, it was impossible that you could know. Time
was, sir, when I was butler to old Sir Jabez Gilchrist, this young
gentleman's father. When he was ruined I came to the college as
servant, but I never forgot my old employer because he was
down in the world. I watched his son all I could for the sake of
the old days. Well, sir, when I came into this room yesterday,
when the alarm was given, the very first thing I saw was Mr.
Gilchrist's tan gloves a-lying in that chair. I knew those gloves
well, and I understood their message. If Mr. Soames saw them,
the game was up. I flopped down into that chair, and nothing
would budge me until Mr. Soames went for you. Then out came
my poor young master, whom I had dandled on my knee, and
confessed it all to me. Wasn't it natural, sir, that I should save
him, and wasn't it natural also that I should try to speak to him
as his dead father would have done, and make him understand
that he could not profit by such a deed? Could you blame me,
sir?"
"No, indeed," said Holmes, heartily, springing to his feet.
"Well, Soames, I think we have cleared your little problem up,
and our breakfast awaits us at home. Come, Watson! As to you,
sir, I trust that a bright future awaits you in Rhodesia. For once
you have fallen low. Let us see, in the future, how high you can
rise."


THE THREE WISHES

Once upon a time . . . a woodcutter lived happily with his wife in a pretty
little log cabin in the middle of a thick forest. Each morning he set off
singing to work, and when he came home in the evening, a plate of hot steaming
soup was always waiting for him.
One day, however, he had a strange surprise. He came upon a big fir tree
with strange open holes on the trunk. It looked somehow different from the
other trees, and just as he was about to chop it down, the alarmed face of an
elf popped out of a hole.
"What's all this banging?" asked the elf. "You're not thinking of cutting
down this tree, are you? It's my home. I live here!" The woodcutter dropped
his axe in astonlshment.
"Well, I . . ." he stammered.
"With all the other trees there are in this forest, you have to pick this
one. Lucky I was in, or I would have found myself homeless."
Taken aback at these words, the woodcutter qulckly recovered, for after all
the elf was quite tiny, while he himself was a big hefty chap, and he boldly
replied: "I'll cut down any tree I like, so . . ."
"All right! All right!" broke in the elf. "Shall we put it this way: if you
don't cut down this tree, I grant you three wishes. Agreed?" The woodcutter
scratched his head.
"Three wishes, you say? Yes, I agree." And he began to hack at another
tree. As he worked and sweated at his task, the woodcutter kept thinking about
the magic wishes.
"I'll see what my wife thinks..."
The woodcutter's wife was busily cleaning a pot outside the house when her
husband arrived. Grabbing her round the waist, he twirled her in delight.
"Hooray! Hooray! Our luck is in!"
The woman could not understand why her husband was so pleased with himself
and she shrugged herself free. Later, however, over a glass of fine wine at
the table, the woodcutter told his wife of his meeting with the elf, and she
too began to picture the wonderful things that the elf's three wishes might
give them. The woodcutter's wife took a first sip of wine from her husband's
glass.
"Nice," she said, smacking her lips. "I wish I had a string of sausages to
go with it, though..."
Instantly she bit her tongue, but too late. Out of the air appeared the
sausages while the woodcutter stuttered with rage.
". . . what have you done! Sausages . . . What a stupid waste of a wish!
You foollsh woman. I wish they would stick up your nose!" No sooner sald than
done. For the sausages leapt up and stuck fast to the end of the woman's nose.
This time, the woodcutter's wife flew into a rage.
"You idiot, what have you done? With all the things we could have wished
for . . ." The mortified woodcutter, who had just repeated his wife's own
mistake, exclaimed:
"I'd chop . . ." Luckily he stopped himself in time, realizing with horror
that he'd been on the point of having his tongue chopped off. As his wife
complained and blamed him, the poor man burst out laughing.
"If only you knew how funny you look with those sausages on the end of your
nose!" Now that really upset the woodcutter's wife. She hadn't thought of her
looks. She tried to tug away the sausages but they would not budge. She pulled
again and again, but in vain. The sausages were firmly attached to her nose.
Terrified, she exclaimed: "They'll be there for the rest of my life!"
Feeling sorry for his wife and wondering how he could ever put up with a
woman with such an awkward nose, the woodcutter said: "I'll try." Grasping the
string of sausages, he tugged with all his might. But he simply pulled his
wife over on top of him. The pair sat on the floor, gazing sadly at each other.
"What shall we do now?" they said, each thinking the same thought.
"There's only one thing we can do . . ." ventured the woodcutter's wife
timidly.
"Yes, I'm afraid so . . ." her husband sighed, remembering their dreams of
riches, and he bravely wished the third and last wish "I wish the sausages
would leave my wife's nose."
And they did. Instantly, husband and wife hugged each other tearfully,
saying "Maybe we'll be poor, but we'll be happy again!"
That evening, the only reminder of the woodcutter's meeting with the elf
was the string of sausages. So the couple fried them, gloomily thinking of
what that meal had cost them.


Four Moons of Death

DING DONG! The melancholy tintinabulation of the iron bells echoed
in the golden town of Arno. The shuffling of feet filing out of a granite
cathedral and the murmuring voices of paupers dominated all the sound.
Residing peacefully at it's zenith in it's aquamarine abode was the ocher
sun.
A slight breeze whipped up some dead leaves from the tan soil
revealing some rustling. Slender and have brown hair, a man dressed in a
white robe with some golden lace entered Al's Pub.
As he entered the bar, tattooed, bearded, deep-voiced men sat at
tables, discussing about their adventures and their treasures while
slurping various alcoholic beverages.
Greetings came from every person as the Arch Bishop sauntered
towards an empty table. He received all sorts of messages like :
"Good afternoon Fleric. How are thee today? I absolutely believe in all
thy sermons."
Al paced up to the waxed oak table as Fleric stood his wooden
cudgel next to his worn-out stool.
"What will it be Fleric?"
"I shalt have some boar meat and a cup of thy finest wine"
"Very good selection. Thy cost will be 5000 copper pieces, Fleric"
Willfully, Fleric placed 5 platinum coins engraved with the quote
"In Annisette We Trust" on the polished table. Al gratefully grinned as he
scooped up the money and briskly walked-off jingling them in his enclosed
hands.
Fleric slipped a small, ancient tome from his robe's long sleeve.
He flipped the yellow pages to the chapter on the 4 moons. Fleric's eyes
caught something that made his gray matter go to work.
The inscription on the crinkled paper read: "When the 4 moons are
full, it shall raise the deceased. If thou even look at any grave during
that period, thou shalt meet thy untimely demise."  His almost hollow jaw
drooped. "Tonight is the night when all 4 moons ARE full." Fleric thought.
" I must warn everyone." His thin arm motioned at a brown haired woman who
held a mahogany lute. Her cotton clothes seemed oversized and a red silk
hat topped her scalp.
"Why hello Fleric. What do thou want with a wandering minstreal
like me? Surely thou must have better things to do than talking to a
peasent like me."
"Warn everyone that tonight all 4 moons are full. That is all I
want from thee, madame." Suddenly, time stood still as all the gossiping
and shouting terminated. Surprised eyes fixed themselves at Fleric. Without
hesitating, all the customers fled the vicinity whispering to each other.
"I do not think that will be necessary Fleric. Everyone else should
know it by now." the woman replies. With that, she walks up to Al and
started strumming on her lute a song of praise to the goddess Annisette.
Heaving a great sigh, Fleric continued to peruse the tiny book :
"For thou to understand more, thou must understand how the moons behave.
Flit, Pop and Lag go from east to west, but Instanity flies across the
sky the other way. Flit is fast and Lag is slow in it's orbit. Pop is the
strangest of all the moons. It can appear any time and anywhere at night.
Because of these behaviors, the gravity of the moons mix itself with
the radiation from the sun, creating a dark rainbow. This unseen matter
stimulates evil and will raise the dead."
Al's stout and jolly body loomed over Fleric as some food was
situated beside the Arch Bishop. Fleric's lunch smelled good. The odor
grabbed Fleric's bony hand and dragged it towards the cup of Brandy.
Still staring at the book, Fleric drew the wine closer to him. His hazel
eyes lifted from the book and rolled back as he gulped down the drink.

When he quenched his thirst, he put the bronze goblet back on the table
and slammed the book shut.
A warrior embodied by plate armour sat on the flimsy stool on the
opposite side of the 4-legged wooden platform. SNAP! The stool crumpled
into countless splinters. THUD! The fighter collapsed on to the dirt floor.
"Help me up Fleric" pleaded the myrmidon. His outstretched arm
beckoned Fleric (who was starting to nibble on his boar meat) to lift him
up. The Arch Bishop threw down the slab of meat and yanked the man off of
the floor with greasy hands.
"Thank you Fleric"
"Do not mention it Boris."
"Guess what."
"What?"
"We have a mission to fulfill."
"WE?!?!?"
"Yes, we must rescue 5 children who wandered off towards the Graves
of the Ones Beyond! The Duke is willing to give us 5,000,000 copper pieces.
Look Fleric, we will split it 50/50. Okay?"
"Fine" yawned Fleric.
"Do not be so blase about it. Besides, I am looking to buy some
armour. Particularly, a set of mythril armour. I could use some light weight
armour and it does cost 25,000 gold, which means I will be spending all of
my reward money. After all, I want the armour to match the color of my
sword, X-Calibur!". Boris drew a blue bladed double edged sword from it's
sheath. The saber glowed with an ultramarine aura.
"I will be back. Get ready though." Fleric bolted out of the bar
without even getting a tooth mark on the rest of his lunch."
"What about thy lunch?"
"I am not very hungry. You eat it!" called Fleric.

Dashing towards his lodge far from the slums, Fleric knew he must
hurry, for the sun is about halfway covered by the horizon. As he ran into
the house, he hung his white robe on a steel rack by the foyer. The Arch
Bishop rushed into the Armoury. After flipping through his suits, cloaks,
capes and various pieces of chain mail, he grabbed a set of extremely
over-sized Dragonhide Armour. The cleric then fumbled with attaching his
burnt-sienna leather pouch on his zinc belt on the armour.  With 2 hands,
Fleric snapped a mythril plate on his left gauntlet. His right thumb and
index finger grasped a crystal shillelagh. With everything all set, Fleric
tried to promenade as swiftly as possible back to the pub.
The aureate hemisphere lingered over the naked swarm of maple and
redwood trees.
His footsteps became farther apart as Flit, one of the moons became
palpable to the eyesight.
At the bar, Boris jingled a sac full of exotic elixers, while
gazing out the window. His eyes almost were shut and his chin rested safely
on his hand. Boris's eyelids popped open when his auditory nerves received
the words "I'm ready now".
"Aaaaah. You visited the apothecary, Boris." stated Fleric.
The fighter's head nodded and with the cleric, they treaded over the leaf
infested ground toward the Graves of the Ones Beyond.
The pair of warriors weaved pass the myriad of marble tombstones as
shrills of child laughter echoed from the direction of Garlock's charnel
house. Instinctively, they tracked the noise with their weapons drawn.
Then Fleric and Boris saw it. All five children were sitting
Indian-style on the granite roof of the crypt. Their tiny fingers flicked
strange color disks into clay bowls on the other side of the stone slab.
"Hey, it is F-Fleric!" stammered the smallest girl with rosy cheeks
and blonde curls.
"Good af-I mean evening children. What are thou doing way out here?"

"This is the best place for tiddlywinks! Right Tricia?" exclaimed
the overweight boy.
"Yes it is Bubba. Where else can we find a flat surface as smooth
as this???" replied the older girl.
"Come on children, we need to go home now." commanded Boris.
"NO! I WILL NOT GO!" exclaimed the youngest boy with red hair.
"Yes thou are." Boris flexed his huge biceps and lifted the boy off
the marble roof with his left hand. With the other hand he tapped Fleric's
shoulder with the hilt of X-Calibur. The Arch Bishop turned around to see
the ebony blade pointing at 3 of moons. Flit, Lag and Insanity glared with
bright light as though they were stars. Fleric nodded and led the parade of
children towards Arno.
HOOOOOOOWLLLLLLLL! The howl of a distant wolf can be heard through
out the planet as Pop, the 4th moon appeared out of oblivion creating the
dark rainbow. Little did any know that the soil softly broke apart in a
nearby grave ahead of the party. A skeleton's crimson hand poked out from
the earth and grappled Fleric's leg as they walked by. THUMP! Fleric
plunged to the ground, full of shock as to what had hit him.
Fleric recovered from the fall and dusted off his soiled armour.
The whole grisly skeleton began ascending from it's grave revealing half of
its cranium sliced off.
"EEEEEEEEEEEEEEK!" cried all 5 children in unison, who huddled behind
Boris.
Fleric's steel boots smacked the skeleton's ribs as it attempted to
strangle the cleric. The half rotted body disintegrated.
More corpses began climbing out of their resting places as zombies,
ghouls, skeletons and wights without a sound attacked the heroes. Even
ghosts, specters and banshees rose out of their graves. Even inorganic
material began creeping towards the party.
Every swish from Boris's X-Calibur decapitated at least one of the
undead, cutting down their numbers. Fleric's diamond shillelagh granulated
every atom of each spirit.

Flapping it's hairy wings, a small mammal hovered around Nicky,
the red-haired boy. An emerald mist was dispensed from the animal,
transforming it into a dark being with a jet-black cape. The pearly white
fangs approahed Nicky's throat. Closer and nearer it came. Nicky tried to
scream for assistence, yet the shock petrified every muscle in the little
boy's body.
This event was observed by Fleric just as a gargoyle threw a
buffet right into the Arch Bishop's intestines. Wincing in extreme pain,
Fleric reeled back and toppled onto the grass. At this point in the
battle, he saw this gruesome assault and dealt the neck-biter with a white
bulb. Used as a projectile, this seasoning landed right into the mouth of
the creature. With a puff of blue-green smoke, the attacker decimated
leaving a very terrified Nicky behind.
Severed wrinkled, scarred body parts flew everywhere as more
monsters silently climbed out of their coffins.
The marble gargoyle that struck Fleric earlier slashed it's
corundum claws at Boris's wooden shield. The small plate easily crumpled
under the relentless attacks from the living statue. X-Calibur suddenly
radiated with an azure blue light as Boris channeled his anger into the
mystical sword. With this sudden power, the myrmidon butchered the stone
giant.
The number one appeared in Fleric's mind. He knew it was a cue sent
by the Goddess Annisette who heard their pleas for help. Death was
certainly a reality if he goes through this plan. He must help his friends.
"REESHCENO!" the cleric chanted. The magical incantation summoned a
jiga-volt trail of electricity from the cosmos. The bolt fanned out,
vaporizing all the undead in a instant.

The strain of this spell was way too much for any mere mortal's
endurance to withstand. Heaving the greatest sigh in his entire existence
as a sentient on this planet caused Fleric to crumple on a grassy hillock.
Every bit of undead organic debris slowly faded away until this
cemetary looked as if nothing ever occurred.
All the children hovered over the limp body of Fleric, they slapped
him, screamed and even dumped water on his face. His body still mimicked a
corpse.
Bruno took 2 blistered fingers and felt the Arch Bishop's neck.
"His pulse is still, there. The pulse somewhat slowed down dramatically."
he thought.
A cool, steady gust of wind ceased to blow the red, orange, yellow
and brown leaves around. For awhile it was a DEAD silence.
KABOOOOM! A celestial lump of rock plummeted through the atmosphere
smashing in the planet. The force of such a jolt shattered the granite roof
of Garlock's mausoleum.
"HA!HA!HA!HA!HA!HA!" chuckled a mysterious voice. The chill of such
voice sent shivers down everyone's spines.
An iron guantlet pulverized the bolted steel door.
"It can not be!" Boris muttered.
The younger girl stammered "It is G-Garlock!"
A half decomposed wool cloak engulfed the metal covered body as it
stepped out of it's charnel house.
"YES! I AM ALIVE ONCE AGAIN!" bellowed the dark warrior.
"Thou are not going to be much longer, as long as I am here!" Boris
answered.
"Thou are such a fool! Surely thou must know that I am omnipotent!
Nothing can stop me! Weapons can never penetrate my eclipse armour!" At
Garlock's words Boris thrusted the ebony sowrd into his adversary. The dark
warrior wasn't even slightly incapacitated.
"HA!HA! Even X-Calibur cannot damage someone who can become
intangible at will! Thanks to my armour!"

"If we had the right potion, maybe we can awake Fleric" thought
Jeff, the biggest boy. "BRUNO! WE NEED A HEAL FLASK!" The fighter nodded
while nimbly dodging bone-shattering jabs and uppercuts. As his hand
reached into his bag, his hand completely smothered an elixer covered with
a rough surface.
Jeff boldy ran up to Boris to receive the flask. He tossed it to
Bubba who quickly dumped the purple liquid into Fleric's mouth...

Garlock raised his gloved hand and a lump of soil popped up,
slipping Boris. The fingers of Garlock locked together as he pounded at
Boris. The myrmidon rolled awat as the dark warrior's fist missed and
penetrated 4 feet of rocky soil.
"Thou are such a feisty little fool! I shalt personally end thy
pathetic existence!"
Bruno managed to stand up. His plate armour, gashed, dented,
scraped and cracked crumpled, leaving a studded leather suit.
ZAP! Two projections of electrically charged photons flew at Boris.
Whack! Whack! Like a baseball player (the game does not exist yet), Boris
swung X-Calibur at the blasts. They dissapated at the contact with the
ebony blade.
Fleric's eyes flashed open as he saw Boris reeling back and
crashing into a marble statue of a headless angel (actually it wasn't
headless before).
"He's awake!" cried the 2 girls.
Garlock's featureless titanium mask faced the cleric. Two crimson
glows on the mask glared.
"Fleric, so......the Arch Bishop is here. Even your powers cannot

stop me! The 4 moons give me power beyond your comprehension. Taste the
fury of fire!" A gigantic ball of flames rushed towards Fleric. Lifting his
mythril shield, the blaze rebounded back at the dark warrior! This was such
a surprise Garlock never decreased the density of his molecules.
"Aaaaaarh! You shall pay for this outrage!" cursed Garlock, who
right now was torched.
"Your the one who is going to visit Apollyn forever!"
"I will return...you can count on it. I WILL BE BA-"
Boris's consciousness flowed back into his brain as his sweaty
biceps glistened in the moonlight.
"Where's Garlock?"
"Cremated"
"Really?"
"Yes"
Annisette, goddess and well revered intentionally smashed 2 moons,
Flit and Insanity. The vacuum of space muffled all trace of the collision.
Now, all scholars and astronomers wondered what fate did the two moons
face?
The party marched back to Arno, as the sad ringing and the chiming
of the iron bells reverberated in the darkness of the world.

:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:
-----=====Earth's Dreamlands=====-----
(313)558-5024 {14.4} (313)558-5517
A BBS for text file junkies
RPGNet GM File Archive Site
.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.

The Five Orange Pips

When I glance over my notes and records of the Sherlock
Holmes cases between the years '82 and '90, I am faced by so
many which present strange and interesting features that it is no
easy matter to know which to choose and which to leave. Some,
however, have already gained publicity through the papers, and
others have not offered a field for those peculiar qualities which
my friend possessed in so high a degree, and which it is the
object of these papers to illustrate. Some, too, have baffled his
analytical skill, and would be, as narratives, beginnings without
an ending, while others have been but partially cleared up, and
have their explanations founded rather upon conjecture and sur-
mise than on that absolute logical proof which was so dear to
him. There is, however, one of these last which was so remark-
able in its details and so startling in its results that I am tempted
to give some account of it in spite of the fact that there are points
in connection with it which never have been, and probably never
will be, entirely cleared up.
The year '87 furnished us with a long series of cases of
greater or less interest, of which I retain the records. Among my
headings under this one twelve months I find an account of the
adventure of the Paradol Chamber, of the Amateur Mendicant
Society, who held a luxurious club in the lower vault of a
furniture warehouse, of the facts connected with the loss of the
British bark Sophy Anderson, of the singular adventures of the
Grice Patersons in the island of Uffa, and finally of the Camberwell
poisoning case. In the latter, as may be remembered, Sherlock
Holmes was able, by winding up the dead man's watch, to prove
that it had been wound up two hours before, and that therefore
the deceased had gone to bed within that time -- a deduction
which was of the greatest importance in clearing up the case. All
these I may sketch out at some future date, but none of them
present such singular features as the strange train of circum-
stances which I have now taken up my pen to describe.
It was in the latter days of September, and the equinoctial
gales had set in with exceptional violence. All day the wind had
screamed and the rain had beaten against the windows, so that
even here in the heart of great, hand-made London we were
forced to raise our minds for the instant from the routine of life
and to recognize the presence of those great elemental forces
which shriek at mankind through the bars of his civilization, like
untamed beasts in a cage. As evening drew in, the storm grew
higher and louder, and the wind cried and sobbed like a child in
the chimney. Sherlock Holmes sat moodily at one side of the
fireplace cross-indexing his records of crime, while I at the other
was deep in one of Clark Russell's fine sea-stories until the howl
of the gale from without seemed to blend with the text, and the
splash of the rain to lengthen out into the long swash of the sea
waves. My wife was on a visit to her mother's, and for a few
days I was a dweller once more in my old quarters at Baker
Street.
"Why," said I, glancing up at my companion, "that was
surely the bell. Who could come to-night? Some friend of yours,
perhaps?"
"Except yourself I have none," he answered. "I do not
encourage visitors."
"A client, then?"
"If so, it is a serious case. Nothing less would bring a man
out on such a day and at such an hour. But I take it that it is
more likely to be some crony of the landlady's."
Sherlock Holmes was wrong in his conjecture, however, for
there came a step in the passage and a tapping at the door. He
stretched out his long arm to turn the lamp away from himself
and towards the vacant chair upon which a newcomer must sit.
"Come in!" said he.
The man who entered was young, some two-and-twenty at the
outside, well-groomed and trimly clad, with something of refine-
ment and delicacy in his bearing. The streaming umbrella which
he held in his hand, and his long shining waterproof told of the
fierce weather through which he had come. He looked about him
anxiously in the glare of the lamp, and I could see that his face
was pale and his eyes heavy, like those of a man who is weighed
down with some great anxiety.
"l owe you an apology," he said, raising his golden pince-nez
to his eyes. "I trust that I am not intruding. I fear that I have
brought some traces of the storm and rain into your snug chamber."
"Give me your coat and umbrella," said Holmes. "They may
rest here on the hook and will be dry presently. You have come
up from the south-west, I see."
"Yes, from Horsham."
"That clay and chalk mixture which I see upon your toe caps
is quite distinctive."
"I have come for advice."
"That is easily got."
"And help."
"That is not always so easy."
"I have heard of you, Mr. Holmes. I heard from Major
Prendergast how you saved him in the Tankerville Club scandal."
"Ah, of course. He was wrongfully accused of cheating at
cards."
"He said that you could solve anything."
"He said too much."
"That you are never beaten."
"I have been beaten four times  -  three times by men, and
once by a woman."
"But what is that compared with the number of your successes?"
"It is true that I have been generally successful."
"Then you may be so with me."
"I beg that you will draw your chair up to the fire and favour
me with some details as to your case."
"It is no ordinary one."
"None of those which come to me are. I am the last court of
appeal."
"And yet I question, sir, whether, in all your experience, you
have ever listened to a more mysterious and inexplicable chain of
events than those which have happened in my own family."
"You fill me with interest," said Holmes. "Pray give us the
essential facts from the commencement, and I can afterwards
question you as to those details which seem to me to be most
important."
The young man pulled his chair up and pushed his wet feet out
towards the blaze.
"My name," said he, "is John Openshaw, but my own affairs
have, as far as I can understand, little to do with this awful
business. It is a hereditary matter; so in order to give you an idea
of the facts, I must go back to the commencement of the affair.
"You must know that my grandfather had two sons -- my
uncle Elias and my father Joseph. My father had a small factory
at Coventry, which he enlarged at the time of the invention of
bicycling. He was a patentee of the Openshaw unbreakable tire,
and his business met with such success that he was able to sell it
and to retire upon a handsome competence.
"My uncle Elias emigrated to America when he was a young
man and became a planter in Florida, where he was reported to
have done very well. At the time of the war he fought in
Jackson's army, and afterwards under Hood, where he rose to be
a colonel. When Lee laid down his arms my uncle returned to his
plantation, where he remained for three or four years. About
1869 or 1870 he came back to Europe and took a small estate in
Sussex, near Horsham. He had made a very considerable fortune
in the States, and his reason for leaving them was his aversion to
the negroes, and his dislike of the Republican policy in extend-
ing the franchise to them. He was a singular man, fierce and
quick-tempered, very foul-mouthed when he was angry, and of a
most retiring disposition. During all the years that he lived at
Horsham, I doubt if ever he set foot in the town. He had a
garden and two or three fields round his house, and there he
would take his exercise, though very often for weeks on end he
would never leave his room. He drank a great deal of brandy and
smoked very heavily, but he would see no society and did not
want any friends, not even his own brother.
"He didn't mind me; in fact, he took a fancy to me, for at the
time when he saw me first I was a youngster of twelve or so.
This would be in the year 1878, after he had been eight or nine
years in England. He begged my father to let me live with him
and he was very kind to me in his way. When he was sober he
used to be fond of playing backgammon and draughts with me,
and he would make me his representative both with the servants
and with the tradespeople, so that by the time that I was sixteen I
was quite master of the house. I kept all the keys and could go
where I liked and do what I liked, so long as I did not disturb
him in his privacy. There was one singular exception, however,
for he had a single room, a lumber-room up among the attics,
which was invariably locked, and which he would never permit
either me or anyone else to enter. With a boy's curiosity I have
peeped through the keyhole, but I was never able to see more
than such a collection of old trunks and bundles as would be
expected in such a room.
"One day -- it was in March, 1883 -- a letter with a foreign
stamp lay upon the table in front of the colonel's plate. It was
not a common thing for him to receive letters, for his bills were
all paid in ready money, and he had no friends of any sort. 'From
India!' said he as he took it up, 'Pondicherry postmark! What
can this be?' Opening it hurriedly, out there jumped five little
dried orange pips, which pattered down upon his plate. I began
to laugh at this, but the laugh was struck from my lips at the
sight of his face. His lip had fallen, his eyes were protruding, his
skin the colour of putty, and he glared at the envelope which he
still held in his trembling hand, 'K. K. K.!' he shrieked, and
then, 'My God, my God, my sins have overtaken me!'
" 'What is it, uncle?' I cried.
" 'Death,' said he, and rising from the table he retired to his
room, leaving me palpitating with horror. I took up the envelope
and saw scrawled in red ink upon the inner flap, just above the
gum, the letter K three times repeated. There was nothing else
save the five dried pips. What could be the reason of his over-
powering terror? I left the breakfast-table, and as I ascended the
stair I met him coming down with an old rusty key, which must
have belonged to the attic, in one hand, and a small brass box,
like a cashbox, in the other.
" 'They may do what they like, but I'll checkmate them still,'
said he with an oath. 'Tell Mary that I shall want a fire in my
room to-day, and send down to Fordham, the Horsham lawyer.'
"I did as he ordered, and when the lawyer arrived I was asked
to step up to the room. The fire was burning brightly, and in the
grate there was a mass of black, fluffy ashes, as of burned paper,
while the brass box stood open and empty beside it. As I glanced
at the box I noticed, with a start, that upon the lid was printed
the treble K which I had read in the morning upon the envelope.
" 'I wish you, John,' said my uncle, 'to witness my will. I
leave my estate, with all its advantages and all its disadvantages,
to my brother, your father, whence it will, no doubt, descend to
you. If you can enjoy it in peace, well and good! If you find you
cannot, take my advice, my boy, and leave it to your deadliest
enemy. I am sorry to give you such a two-edged thing, but I
can't say what turn things are going to take. Kindly sign the
paper where Mr. Fordham shows you.'
"I signed the paper as directed, and the lawyer took it away
with him. The singular incident made, as you may think, the
deepest impression upon me, and I pondered over it and turned it
every way in my mind without being able to make anything of it.
Yet I could not shake off the vague feeling of dread which it left
behind, though the sensation grew less keen as the weeks passed
and nothing happened to disturb the usual routine of our lives. I
could see a change in my uncle, however. He drank more than
ever, and he was less inclined for any sort of society. Most of his
time he would spend in his room, with the door locked upon the
inside, but sometimes he would emerge in a sort of drunken
frenzy and would burst out of the house and tear about the
garden with a revolver in his hand, screaming out that he was
afraid of no man, and that he was not to be cooped up, like a
sheep in a pen, by man or devil. When these hot fits were over
however, he would rush tumultuously in at the door and lock and
bar it behind him, like a man who can brazen it out no longer
against the terror which lies at the roots of his soul. At such
times I have seen his face, even on a cold day, glisten with
moisture, as though it were new raised from a basin.
"Well, to come to an end of the matter, Mr. Holmes, and not
to abuse your patience, there came a night when he made one of
those drunken sallies from which he never came back. We found
him, when we went to search for him, face downward in a little
green-scummed pool, which lay at the foot of the garden. There
was no sign of any violence, and the water was but two feet
deep, so that the jury, having regard to his known eccentricity,
brought in a verdict of 'suicide.' But I, who knew how he
winced from the very thought of death, had much ado to persuade
myself that he had gone out of his way to meet it. The matter
passed, however, and my father entered into possession of the
estate, and of some 14,000 pounds, which lay to his credit at the
bank."
"One moment," Holmes interposed, "your statement is, I
foresee, one of the most remarkable to which I have ever lis-
tened. Let me have the date of the reception by your uncle of the
letter, and the date of his supposed suicide."
"The letter arrived on March 10, 1883. His death was seven
weeks later, upon the night of May 2d."
"Thank you. Pray proceed."
"When my father took over the Horsham property, he, at my
request, made a careful examination of the attic, which had been
always locked up. We found the brass box there, although its
contents had been destroyed. On the inside of the cover was a
paper label, with the initials of K. K. K. repeated upon it, and
'Letters, memoranda, receipts, and a register' written beneath.
These, we presume, indicated the nature of the papers which had
been destroyed by Colonel Openshaw. For the rest, there was
nothing of much importance in the attic save a great many
scattered papers and note-books bearing upon my uncle's life in
America. Some of them were of the war time and showed that he
had done his duty well and had borne the repute of a brave
soldier. Others were of a date during the reconstruction of the
Southern states, and were mostly concerned with politics, for he
had evidently taken a strong part in opposing the carpet-bag
politicians who had been sent down from the North.
"Well, it was the beginning of '84 when my father came to
live at Horsham, and all went as well as possible with us until
the January of '85. On the fourth day after the new year I heard
my father give a sharp cry of surprise as we sat together at the
breakfast-table. There he was, sitting with a newly opened enve-
lope in one hand and five dried orange pips in the outstretched
palm of the other one. He had always laughed at what he called
my cock-and-bull story about the colonel, but he looked very
scared and puzzled now that the same thing had come upon
himself.
" 'Why, what on earth does this mean, John?' he stammered.
"My heart had turned to lead. 'It is K. K. K.,' said I.
"He looked inside the envelope. 'So it is,' he cried. 'Here are
the very letters. But what is this written above them?'
" 'Put the papers on the sundial,' I read, peeping over his
shoulder.
" 'What papers? What sundial?' he asked.
" 'The sundial in the garden. There is no other,' said I; 'but
the papers must be those that are destroyed.'
" 'Pooh!' said he, gripping hard at his courage. 'We are in a
civilized land here, and we can't have tomfoolery of this kind.
Where does the thing come from?'
" 'From Dundee,' I answered, glancing at the postmark.
" 'Some preposterous practical joke,' said he. 'What have I to
do with sundials and papers? I shall take no notice of such
nonsense.'
" 'I should certainly speak to the police,' I said.
" 'And be laughed at for my pains. Nothing of the sort.'
" 'Then let me do so?'
" 'No, I forbid you. I won't have a fuss made about such
nonsense.'
"It was in vain to argue with him, for he was a very obstinate
man. I went about, however, with a heart which was full of
forebodings.
"On the third day after the coming of the letter my father went
from home to visit an old friend of his, Major Freebody, who is
in command of one of the forts upon Portsdown Hill. I was glad
that he should go, for it seemed to me that he was farther from
danger when he was away from home. In that, however, I was in
error. Upon the second day of his absence I received a telegram
from the major, imploring me to come at once. My father had
fallen over one of the deep chalk-pits which abound in the
neighbourhood, and was lying senseless, with a shattered skull. I
hurried to him, but he passed away without having ever recov-
ered his consciousness. He had, as it appears, been returning
from Fareham in the twilight, and as the country was unknown
to him, and the chalk-pit unfenced, the jury had no hesitation in
bringing in a verdict of 'death from accidental causes.' Carefully
as I examined every fact connected with his death, I was unable
to find anything which could suggest the idea of murder. There
were no signs of violence, no footmarks, no robbery, no record
of strangers having been seen upon the roads. And yet I need not
tell you that my mind was far from at ease, and that I was
well-nigh certain that some foul plot had been woven round him.
"In this sinister way I came into my inheritance. You will ask
me why I did not dispose of it? I answer, because I was well
convinced that our troubles were in some way dependent upon an
incident in my uncle's life, and that the danger would be as
pressing in one house as in another.
"It was in January, '85, that my poor father met his end, and
two years and eight months have elapsed since then. During that
time I have lived happily at Horsham, and I had begun to hope
that this curse had passed way from the family, and that it had
ended with the last generation. I had begun to take comfort too
soon, however; yesterday morning the blow fell in the very
shape in which it had come upon my father."
The young man took from his waistcoat a crumpled envelope,
and turning to the table he shook out upon it five little dried
orange pips.
"This is the envelope," he continued. "The postmark is
London -- eastern division. Within are the very words which
were upon my father's last message: 'K. K. K.'; and then 'Put
the papers on the sundial.' "
"What have you done?'' asked Holmes.
"Nothing."
"Nothing?"
"To tell the truth" -- he sank his face into his thin, white
hands -- "I have felt helpless. I have felt like one of those poor
rabbits when the snake is writhing towards it. I seem to be in the
grasp of some resistless, inexorable evil, which no foresight and
no precautions can guard against."
"Tut! tut!" cried Sherlock Holmes. "You must act, man, or
you are lost. Nothing but energy can save you. This is no time
for despair."
"I have seen the police."
"Ah!"
"But they listened to my story with a smile. I am convinced
that the inspector has formed the opinion that the letters are all
practical jokes, and that the deaths of my relations were really
accidents, as the jury stated, and were not to be connected with
the warnings."
Holmes shook his clenched hands in the air. "Incredible
imbecility!" he cried.
"They have, however, allowed me a policeman, who may re-
main in the house with me."
"Has he come with you to-night?"
"No. His orders were to stay in the house."
Again Holmes raved in the air.
"Why did you come to me," he cried, "and, above all, why
did you not come at once?"
"I did not know. It was only to-day that I spoke to Major
Prendergast about my troubles and was advised by him to come
to you."
"It is really two days since you had the letter. We should have
acted before this. You have no further evidence, I suppose, than
that which you have placed before us -- no suggestive detail
which might help us?"
"There is one thing," said John Openshaw. He rummaged in
his coat pocket, and, drawing out a piece of discoloured, blue-
tinted paper, he laid it out upon the table. "I have some remem-
brance," said he, "that on the day when my uncle burned the
papers I observed that the small, unburned margins which lay
amid the ashes were of this particular colour. I found this single
sheet upon the floor of his room, and I am inclined to think that
it may be one of the papers which has, perhaps, fluttered out
from among the others, and in that way has escaped destruction.
Beyond the mention of pips, I do not see that it helps us much. I
think myself that it is a page from some private diary. The
writing is undoubtedly my uncle's."
Holmes moved the lamp, and we both bent over the sheet of
paper, which showed by its ragged edge that it had indeed been
torn from a book. It was headed, "March, 1869," and beneath
were the following enigmatical notices:

4th. Hudson came. Same old platform.

7th. Set the pips on McCauley, Paramore, and John Swain,
of St. Augustine.
9th. McCauley cleared.
1Oth. John Swain cleared.
12th. Visited Paramore. All well.

"Thank you!" said Holmes, folding up the paper and return-
ing it to our visitor. "And now you must on no account lose
another instant. We cannot spare time even to discuss what you
have told me. You must get home instantly and act."
"What shall I do?"
"There is but one thing to do. It must be done at once. You
must put this piece of paper which you have shown us into the
brass box which you have described. You must also put in a note
to say that all the other papers were burned by your uncle, and
that this is the only one which remains. You must assert that in
such words as will carry conviction with them. Having done
this, you must at once put the box out upon the sundial, as
directed. Do you understand?"
"Entirely."
"Do not think of revenge, or anything of the sort, at present. I
think that we may gain that by means of the law; but we have
our web to weave, while theirs is already woven. The first
consideration is to remove the pressing danger which threatens
you. The second is to clear up the mystery and to punish the
guilty parties."
"I thank you," said the young man, rising and pulling on his
overcoat. "You have given me fresh life and hope. I shall
certainly do as you advise."
"Do not lose an instant. And, above all, take care of yourself
in the meanwhile, for I do not think that there can be a doubt that
you are threatened by a very real and imminent danger. How do
you go back?
"By train from Waterloo."
"It is not yet nine. The streets will be crowded, so l trust that
you may be in safety. And yet you cannot guard yourself too
closely."
"I am armed."
"That is well. To-morrow I shall set to work upon your case."
"I shall see you at Horsham, then?"
"No, your secret lies in London. It is there that I shall seek
it."
"Then I shall call upon you in a day, or in two days, with
news as to the box and the papers. I shall take your advice in
every particular." He shook hands with us and took his leave.
Outside the wind still screamed and the rain splashed and pat-
tered against the windows. This strange, wild story seemed to
have come to us from amid the mad elements -- blown in upon us
like a sheet of sea-weed in a gale -- and now to have been
reabsorbed by them once more.
Sherlock Holmes sat for some time in silence, with his head
sunk forward and his eyes bent upon the red glow of the fire.
Then he lit his pipe, and leaning back in his chair he watched the
blue smoke-rings as they chased each other up to the ceiling.
"I think, Watson," he remarked at last, "that of all our cases
we have had none more fantastic than this."
"Save, perhaps, the Sign of Four."
"Well, yes. Save, perhaps, that. And yet this John Openshaw
seems to me to be walking amid even greater perils than did the
Sholtos."
"But have you," I asked, "formed any definite conception as
to what these perils are?"
"There can be no question as to their nature," he answered.
"Then what are they? Who is this K. K. K., and why does he
pursue this unhappy family?"
Sherlock Holmes closed his eyes and placed his elbows upon
the arms of his chair, with his finger-tips together. "The ideal
reasoner," he remarked, "would, when he had once been shown
a single fact in all its bearings, deduce from it not only all the
chain of events which led up to it but also all the results which
would follow from it. As Cuvier could correctly describe a
whole animal by the contemplation of a single bone, so the
observer who has thoroughly understood one link in a series of
incidents should be able to accurately state all the other ones,
both before and after. We have not yet grasped the results which
the reason alone can attain to. Problems may be solved in the
study which have baffled all those who have sought a solution by
the aid of their senses. To carry the art, however, to its highest
pitch, it is necessary that the reasoner should be able to utilize all
the facts which have come to his knowledge; and this in itself
implies, as you will readily see, a possession of all knowledge,
which, even in these days of free education and encyclopaedias,
is a somewhat rare accomplishment. It is not so impossible,
however, that a man should possess all knowledge which is
likely to be useful to him in his work, and this I have endeav-
oured in my case to do. If I remember rightly, you on one
occasion, in the early days of our friendship, defined my limits
in a very precise fashion."
"Yes," I answered, laughing. "It was a singular document.
Philosophy, astronomy, and politics were marked at zero, I
remember. Botany variable, geology profound as regards the
mud-stains from any region within fifty miles of town, chemistry
eccentric, anatomy unsystematic, sensational literature and crime
records unique, violin-player, boxer, swordsman, lawyer, and
self-poisoner by cocaine and tobacco. Those, I think, were the
main points of my analysis."
Holmes grinned at the last item. "Well," he said, "I say
now, as I said then, that a man should keep his little brain-attic
stocked with all the furniture that he is likely to use, and the rest
he can put away in the lumber-room of his library, where he can
get it if he wants it. Now, for such a case as the one which has
been submitted to us to-night, we need certainly to muster all our
resources. Kindly hand me down the letter K of the American
Encyclopaedia which stands upon the shelf beside you. Thank
you. Now let us consider the situation and see what may be
deduced from it. In the first place, we may start with a strong
presumption that Colonel Openshaw had some very strong rea-
son for leaving America. Men at his time of life do not change
all their habits and exchange willingly the charming climate of
Florida for the lonely life of an English provincial town. His
extreme love of solitude in England suggests the idea that he was
in fear of someone or something, so we may assume as a
working hypothesis that it was fear of someone or something
which drove him from America. As to what it was he feared, we
can only deduce that by considering the formidable letters which
were received by himself and his successors. Did you remark the
postmarks of those letters?"
"The first was from Pondicherry, the second from Dundee,
and the third from London."
"From East London. What do you deduce from that?"
"They are all seaports. That the writer was on board of a
ship."
"Excellent. We have already a clue. There can be no doubt
that the probability -- the strong probability -- is that the writer
was on board of a ship. And now let us consider another point.
In the case of Pondicherry, seven weeks elapsed between the
threat and its fulfillment, in Dundee it was only some three or
four days. Does that suggest anything?"
"A greater distance to travel."
"But the letter had also a greater distance to come."
"Then I do not see the point."
"There is at least a presumption that the vessel in which the
man or men are is a sailing-ship. It looks as if they always seni
their singular warning or token before them when starting upon
their mission. You see how quickly the deed followed the sign
when it came from Dundee. If they had come from Pondicherry
in a steamer they would have arrived almost as soon as their
letter. But, as a matter of fact, seven weeks elapsed. I think that
those seven weeks represented the difference between the mail-
boat which brought the letter and the sailing vessel which brought
the writer."
"It is possible."
"More than that. It is probable. And now you see the deadly
urgency of this new case, and why I urged young Openshaw to
caution. The blow has always fallen at the end of the time which
it would take the senders to travel the distance. But this one
comes from London, and therefore we cannot count upon delay."
"Good God!" I cried. "What can it mean, this relentless
persecution?"
"The papers which Openshaw carried are obviously of vital
importance to the person or persons in the sailing-ship. I think
that it is quite clear that there must be more than one of them. A
single man could not have carried out two deaths in such a way
as to deceive a coroner's jury. There must have been several in
it, and they must have been men of resource and determination.
Their papers they mean to have, be the holder of them who it
may. In this way you see K. K. K. ceases to be the initials of an
individual and becomes the badge of a society."
"But of what society?"
"Have you never --" said Sherlock Holmes, bending forward
and sinking his voice --"have you never heard of the Ku Klux
Klan?"
"I never have."
Holmes turned over the leaves of the book upon his knee.
"Here it is," said he presently:

"Ku Klux Klan. A name derived from the fanciful resem-
blance to the sound produced by cocking a rifle. This
terrible secret society was formed by some ex-Confederate
soldiers in the Southern states after the Civil War, and it
rapidly formed local branches in different parts of the
country, notably in Tennessee, Louisiana, the Carolinas,
Georgia, and Florida. Its power was used for political
purposes, principally for the terrorizing of the negro vot-
ers and the murdering and driving from the country of
those who were opposed to its views. Its outrages were
usually preceded by a warning sent to the marked man in
some fantastic but generally recognized shape -- a sprig of
oak-leaves in some parts, melon seeds or orange pips in
others. On receiving this the victim might either openly
abjure his former ways, or might fly from the country. If
he braved the matter out, death would unfailingly come
upon him, and usually in some strange and unforeseen
manner. So perfect was the organization of the society,
and so systematic its methods, that there is hardly a case
upon record where any man succeeded in braving it with
impunity, or in which any of its outrages were traced
home to the perpetrators. For some years the organization
flourished in spite of the efforts of the United States
government and of the better classes of the community in
the South. Eventually, in the year 1869, the movement
rather suddenly collapsed, although there have been spo-
radic outbreaks of the same sort since that date.

"You will observe," said Holmes, laying down the volume,
"that the sudden breaking up of the society was coincident with
the disappearance of Openshaw from America with their papers.
It may well have been cause and effect. It is no wonder that he
and his family have some of the more implacable spirits upon
their track. You can understand that this register and diary may
implicate some of the first men in the South, and that there may
be many who will not sleep easy at night until it is recovered."
"Then the page we have seen --"
"Is such as we might expect. It ran, if I remember right, 'sent
the pips to A, B, and C' -- that is, sent the society's warning to
them. Then there are successive entries that A and B cleared, or
left the country, and finally that C was visited, with, I fear, a
sinister result for C. Well, I think, Doctor, that we may let some
light into this dark place, and I believe that the only chance
young Openshaw has in the meantime is to do what I have told
him. There is nothing more to be said or to be done to-night, so
hand me over my violin and let us try to forget for half an hour
the miserable weather and the still more miserable ways of our
fellowmen."

It had cleared in the morning, and the sun was shining with a
subdued brightness through the dim veil which hangs over the
great city. Sherlock Holmes was already at breakfast when I
came down.
"You will excuse me for not waiting for you," said he; "I
have, I foresee, a very busy day before me in looking into this
case of young Openshaw's."
"What steps will you take?" I asked.
"It will very much depend upon the results of my first inquir-
ies. I may have to go down to Horsham, after all."
"You will not go there first?"
"No, I shall commence with the City. Just ring the bell and
the maid will bring up your coffee."
As I waited, I lifted the unopened newspaper from the table
and glanced my eye over it. It rested upon a heading which sent
a chill to my heart.
"Holmes," I cried, "you are too late."
"Ah!" said he, laying down his cup, "I feared as much. How
was it done?" He spoke calmly, but I could see that he was
deeply moved.
"My eye caught the name of Openshaw, and the heading
'Tragedy Near Waterloo Bridge.' Here is the account:

"Between nine and ten last night Police-Constable Cook,
of the H Division, on duty near Waterloo Bridge, heard a
cry for help and a splash in the water. The night, however,
was extremely dark and stormy, so that, in spite of the help
of several passers-by, it was quite impossible to effect a
rescue. The alarm, however, was given, and, by the aid of
the water-police, the body was eventually recovered. It
proved to be that of a young gentleman whose name, as it
appears from an envelope which was found in his pocket,
was John Openshaw, and whose residence is near Horsham.
It is conjectured that he may have been hurrying down to
catch the last train from Waterloo Station, and that in his
haste and the extreme darkness he missed his path and
walked over the edge of one of the small landing-places for
river steamboats. The body exhibited no traces of violence,
and there can be no doubt that the deceased had been the
victim of an unfortunate accident, which should have the
effect of calling the attention of the authorities to the condi-
tion of the riverside landing-stages."

We sat in silence for some minutes, Holmes more depressed
and shaken than I had ever seen him.
"That hurts my pride, Watson," he said at last. "It is a petty
feeling, no doubt, but it hurts my pride. It becomes a personal
matter with me now, and, if God sends me health, I shall set my
hand upon this gang. That he should come to me for help, and
that I should send him away to his death --!" He sprang from his
chair and paced about the room in uncontrollable agitation, with
a flush upon his sallow cheeks and a nervous clasping and
unclasping of his long thin hands.
"They must be cunning devils," he exclaimed at last. "How
could they have decoyed him down there? The Embankment is
not on the direct line to the station. The bridge, no doubt, was
too crowded, even on such a night, for their purpose. Well,
Watson, we shall see who will win in the long run. I am going
out now!"
"To the police?"
"No; I shall be my own police. When I have spun the web
they may take the flies, but not before."
All day I was engaged in my professional work, and it was
late in the evening before I returned to Baker Street. Sherlock
Holmes had not come back yet. It was nearly ten o'clock before
he entered, looking pale and worn. He walked up to the side-
board, and tearing a piece from the loaf he devoured it vora-
ciously, washing it down with a long draught of water.
"You are hungry," I remarked.
"Starving. It had escaped my memory. I have had nothing
since breakfast."
"Nothing?"
"Not a bite. I had no time to think of it."
"And how have you succeeded?"
"Well."
"You have a clue?"
"I have them in the hollow of my hand. Young Openshaw
shall not long remain unavenged. Why, Watson, let us put their
own devilish trade-mark upon them. It is well thought of!"
"What do you mean?"
He took an orange from the cupboard, and tearing it to pieces
he squeezed out the pips upon the table. Of these he took five
and thrust them into an envelope. On the inside of the flap he
wrote "S. H. for J. 0." Then he sealed it and addressed it to
"Captain James Calhoun, Bark Lone Star, Savannah, Georgia."
"That will await him when he enters port," said he, chuck-
ling. "It may give him a sleepless night. He will find it as sure a
precursor of his fate as Openshaw did before him."
"And who is this Captain Calhoun?"
"The leader of the gang. I shall have the others, but he first."
"How did you trace it, then?"
He took a large sheet of paper from his pocket, all covered
with dates and names.
"I have spent the whole day," said he, "over Lloyd's regis-
ters and files of the old papers, following the future career of
every vessel which touched at Pondicherry in January and Febru-
ary in '83. There were thirty-six ships of fair tonnage which
were reported there during those months. Of these, one, the Lone
Star, instantly attracted my attention, since, although it was
reported as having cleared from London, the name is that which
is given to one of the states of the Union."
"Texas, I think."
"I was not and am not sure which; but I knew that the ship
must have an American origin."
"What then?"
"I searched the Dundee records, and when I found that the
bark Lone Star was there in January, '85, my suspicion became a
certainty. I then inquired as to the vessels which lay at present in
the port of London."
"Yes?"
"The Lone Star had arrived here last week. I went down to
the Albert Dock and found that she had been taken down the
river by the early tide this morning, homeward bound to Savan-
nah. I wired to Gravesend and learned that she had passed some
time ago, and as the wind is easterly I have no doubt that she is
now past the Goodwins and not very far from the Isle of Wight."
"What will you do, then?"
"Oh, I have my hand upon him. He and the two mates, are
as I learn, the only native-born Americans in the ship. The others
are Finns and Germans. I know, also, that they were all three
away from the ship last night. I had it from the stevedore who
has been loading their cargo. By the time that their sailing-ship
reaches Savannah the mail-boat will have carried this letter, and
the cable will have informed the police of Savannah that these
three gentlemen are badly wanted here upon a charge of murder."
There is ever a flaw, however, in the best laid of human plans,
and the murderers of John Openshaw were never to receive the
orange pips which would show them that another, as cunning
and as resolute as themselves, was upon their track. Very long
and very severe were the equinoctial gales that year. We waited
long for news of the Lone Star of Savannah, but none ever
reached us. We did at last hear that somewhere far out in the
Atlantic a shattered stern-post of the boat was seen swinging in
the trough of a wave, with the letters "L. S." carved upon it,
and that is all which we shall ever know of the fate of the Lone
Star.


SIX ABLE MEN

Once upon a time there lived a young soldier named Martin who had enlisted
in the royal army to flght a war. The war was long but victorious and when the
King abandoned the enemy's territory and returned with his troops to the
homeland, he left Martin to guard the only bridge on the river that separated
the two nations.
"Stay on watch on the bridge," the King ordered. "Don't let any enemy
soldier go by." Days and then months passed, and the soldier kept his watch on
the bridge. He survived by asking the passers-by for food and, after two
years, thought that the authorities had probably forgotten him. He then headed
towards the capital, where he would ask the King for all his back pay. His
pockets were empty and his only possessions were a pipe, a bit of tobacco and
his sword.
A couple of days later he arrived in a valley where a stream crossed his
path. A big man with hands as big as hams, large shoulders and a bull's neck
was sitting by the stream. The man, who had a strangely soft and kind voice,
asked him:
"Would you like to cross the stream?" The soldier couldn't ask for more.
The man effortlessly uprooted a huge tree and laid it across the stream.
Martin offered the man some of his tobacco in return and when he found out
that the man had nothing to do, Martin asked him to come along.
"You'll see all the things we can do together!"
They had just begun walking away when they met a hunter who was aiming his
rifle at a faraway hill.
"What are you aiming at?"
"Do you see that cobweb on that tree on top of the hill?" the hunter asked.
"I want to get the spider!" The hunter shot and when the three men got to the
top of the hill they found a big hole in the middle of the cobweb and no more
spider. Martin had never seen anyone shoot that well and he asked the hunter
to join them.
"Come with us and you'll be in luck!" The three men walked and walked until
they arrived at a windmill. The wheel of the mill was turning even though
there was no wind. The men were puzzled but further up the road they found a
fat man sitting on a tree stump. The man was blowing through one of his
nostrils in the mill's direction. The fat man explained to the three amazed
fellow travellers that his strength was such that he could sneeze up a
hurricane. The soldier convinced him to follow them. As they approached the
city, they were approached by a man who hopped about with his legs tied
together.
"Who tied you up?" they asked in unison.
"I did it myself," the man, who was very young and very thin, answered. "If
I untied myself I would run as fast as the wind and would not enjoy the
sights." And so it was that even this character, nicknamed Fastfoot by the
others, joined the group.
But the surprises of that extraordinary day were far from over. A little
man with a round face sat under a tree. He held his hat over his left ear. "If
I straighten my hat," he explained, "I will freeze everything around me."
Naturally, everybody took his word for it and the stranger was asked to join
the group. The bizarre company finally arrived at the city. A public notice
was hung outside the city walls. The princess announced that whoever would
beat her in a race could marry her.
The soldier dusted his uniform, cleaned himself up after the long trip and
ran to the palace. He wanted to challenge the princess but said that one of
his servants would run in his place. The princess accepted his challenge. The
morning after, at the starting line, Fastfoot untied his legs and took off
like a rocket. Each one of the contestants had a jug that had to be filled at
a nearby stream and brought back full to the finish line. On his way back,
Fastfoot stopped to pick a flower and after carefully setting the jug on the
ground and realizing that the princess was still far away, he decided to lie
down and rest for a while. Unfortunately, he fell asleep.
Later on, when the princess caught up with him and saw that he had fallen
asleep, she kicked down his jug and ran away. She was sure of her victory.
From far away the sharp sighted hunter shot and hit a spot near Fastfoot's
ear. Fastfoot woke up all of a sudden and saw the princess approaching the
finish line. He quickly ran back to the stream, filled the jug and reached the
finish line as fast as lightning. The King was furious. He would never let his
daughter marry a miserable soldier.
He invited the unsuspecting Martin to the palace. Martin told him about his
two years watching over the river, which made the King ever angrier. The King,
however, pretended to feel guilty and invited the soldier and his friends to a
banquet in a strange dining room. In fact the dining room was lined with iron
walls and was built over a huge furnace. The King ordered his men to seal the
dining room's door and to light the furnace. Then he proceeded to watch the
slow death of the group through an unbreakable glass. The six men began eating
but suddenly felt the floor grow very hot, while the room's temperature
rapidly increased.
But Martin did not lose his head. He straightened the hat of the round
faced little man and pretty soon they were all shivering from the cold. The
King uselessly urged his men to throw more and more wood in the furnace, but
the soldier and his fnends had found a remedy to the King's wickedness. No one
had ever come out of this torture chamber alive, but this time the King had to
accept defeat, even though he was still determined not to let his daughter go.
He offered the soldier a large sum of money as long as he gave up the wedding.
"I will fill you a bag of gold and other riches if you forget the wedding."
"That's fine with me," Martin said, "and I accept your offer but as long as
I pick the bag and the man who will carry it away." The poor King was unaware
of the strength of one of the six friends. When he began filling the sack, all
of his gold was not enough to fill it. Martin and his friends were rich. When
they left court, the King had become very poor.
The monarch lost his temper and realized the soldier had fooled him. He
called the army commander and ordered two battalions to chase Martin. "Bring
them back dead or alive and at all costs!" Later on, the soldiers caught up
with the six young men and surrounded them.
"Give us back the gold and surrender," they demanded. But the fattest of the
men began blowing so hard that horses and soldiers were carried away. In just a
few minutes the wounded soldiers were scattered all over the plain and the
battalions were no longer a threat to the six extraordinary friends who
continued their journey.
Then they divided the gold and jewels in equal parts and each one of them
went his own separate way. Martin crossed the bridge where he had been on
watch for so long without any reward and never turned back again.

:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:
-----=====Earth's Dreamlands=====-----
(313)558-5024 {14.4} (313)558-5517
A BBS for text file junkies
RPGNet GM File Archive Site
.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.

The Adventure of the Six Napoleons

It was no very unusual thing for Mr. Lestrade, of Scotland
Yard, to look in upon us of an evening, and his visits were wel-
come to Sherlock Holmes, for they enabled him to keep in touch
with all that was going on at the police headquarters. In return
for the news which Lestrde would bring, Holmes was always
ready to listen with attention to the details of any case upon
which the detective was engaged, and was able occasionally
without any active interference, to give some hint or suggestion
drawn from his own vast knowledge and experience.
On this particular evening, Lestrade had spoken of the weather
and the newspapers. Then he had fallen silent, puffing thoughtfully
at his cigar. Holmes looked keenly at him.
"Anything remarkable on hand?" he asked.
"Oh, no, Mr. Holmes -- nothing very particular."
"Then tell me about it."
Lestrade laughed.
"Well, Mr. Holmes, there is no use denying that there is
something on my mind. And yet it is such an absurd business,
that I hesitated to bother you about it. On the other hand,
although it is trivial, it is undoubtedly queer, and I know that
you have a taste for all that is out of the common. But, in my
opinion, it comes more in Dr. Watson's line than ours."
"Disease?" said I.
"Madness, anyhow. And a queer madness, too. You wouldn't
think there was anyone living at this time of day who had such a
hatred of Napoleon the First that he would break any image of
him that he could see."
Holmes sank back in his chair.
"That's no business of mine," said he.
"Exactly. That's what I said. But then, when the man com-
mits burglary in order to break images which are not his own,
that brings it away from the doctor and on to the policeman."
Holmes sat up again.
"Burglary! This is more interesting. Let me hear the details."
Lestrade took out his official notebook and refreshed his mem-
ory from its pages.
"The first case reported was four days ago," said he. "It was
at the shop of Morse Hudson, who has a place for the sale of
pictures and statues in the Kennington Road. The assistant had
left the front shop for an instant, when he heard a crash, and
hurrying in he found a plaster bust of Napoleon, which stood
with several other works of art upon the counter, lying shivered
into fragments. He rushed out into the road, but, although sev-
eral passers-by declared that they had noticed a man run out of
the shop, he could neither see anyone nor could he find any
means of identifying the rascal. It seemed to be one of those
senseless acts of Hooliganism which occur from time to time,
and it was reported to the constable on the beat as such. The
plaster cast was not worth more than a few shillings, and the
whole affair appeared to be too childish for any particular
investigation.
"The second case, however, was more serious, and also more
singular. It occurred only last night.
"In Kennington Road, and within a few hundred yards of
Morse Hudson's shop, there lives a well-known medical practi-
tioner, named Dr. Barnicot, who has one of the largest practices
upon the south side of the Thames. His residence and principal
consulting-room is at Kennington Road, but he has a branch
surgery and dispensary at Lower Brixton Road, two miles away.
This Dr. Barnicot is an enthusiastic admirer of Napoleon, and his
house is full of books, pictures, and relics of the French Em-
peror. Some little time ago he purchased from Morse Hudson
two duplicate plaster casts of the famous head of Napoleon by
the French sculptor, Devine. One of these he placed in his hall in
the house at Kennington Road, and the other on the mantelpiece
of the surgery at Lower Brixton. Well, when Dr. Barnicot came
down this morning he was astonished to find that his house had
been burgled during the night, but that nothing had been taken
save the plaster head from the hall. It had been carried out and
had been dashed savagely against the garden wall, under which
its splintered fragments were discovered."
Holmes rubbed his hands.
"This is certainly very novel," said he.
"I thought it would please you. But I have not got to the end
yet. Dr. Barnicot was due at his surgery at twelve o'clock, and
you can imagine his amazement when, on arriving there, he
found that the window had been opened in the night, and that the
broken pieces of his second bust were strewn all over the room.
It had been smashed to atoms where it stood. In neither case
were there any signs which could give us a clue as to the
criminal or lunatic who had done the mischief. Now, Mr. Holmes,
you have got the facts."
"They are singular, not to say grotesque," said Holmes.
"May I ask whether the two busts smashed in Dr. Barnicot's
rooms were the exact duplicates of the one which was destroyed
in Morse Hudson's shop?"
"They were taken from the same mould."
"Such a fact must tell against the theory that the man who
breaks them is influenced by any general hatred of Napoleon.
Considering how many hundreds of statues of the great Emperor
must exist in London, it is too much to suppose such a coinci-
dence as that a promiscuous iconoclast should chance to begin
upon three specimens of the same bust."
"Well, I thought as you do," said Lestrade. "On the other
hand, this Morse Hudson is the purveyor of busts in that part of
London, and these three were the only ones which had been in
his shop for years. So, although, as you say, there are many
hundreds of statues in London, it is very probable that these
three were the only ones in that district. Therefore, a local
fanatic would begin with them. What do you think, Dr. Watson?"
"There are no limits to the possibilities of monomania," I
answered. "There is the condition which the modern French
psychologists have called the 'idee fixe,' which may be trifling in
character, and accompanied by complete sanity in every other
way. A man who had read deeply about Napoleon, or who had
possibly received some hereditary family injury through the great
war, might conceivably form such an idee fixe and under its
influence be capable of any fantastic outrage."
"That won't do, my dear Watson," said Holmes, shaking his
head, "for no amount of idee fixe would enable your interesting
monomaniac to find out where these busts were situated."
"Well, how do you explain it?"
"I don't attempt to do so. I would only observe that there is a
certain method in the gentleman's eccentric proceedings. For
example, in Dr. Barnicot's hall, where a sound might arouse the
family, the bust was taken outside before being broken, whereas
in the surgery, where there was less danger of an alarm, it was
smashed where it stood. The affair seems absurdly trifling, and
yet I dare call nothing trivial when I reflect that some of my most
classic cases have had the least promising commencement. You
will remember, Watson, how the dreadful business of the Abernetty
family was first brought to my notice by the depth which the
parsley had sunk into the butter upon a hot day. I can't afford,
therefore, to smile at your three broken busts, Lestrade, and I
shall be very much obliged to you if you will let me hear of any
fresh development of so singular a chain of events."

The development for which my friend had asked came in a
quicker and an infinitely more tragic form than he could have
imagined. I was still dressing in my bedroom next morning,
when there was a tap at the door and Holmes entered, a
telegram in his hand. He read it aloud:

"Come instantly, 131 Pitt Street, Kensington.
"LESTRADE.

"What is it, then?" I asked.
"Don't know -- may be anything. But I suspect it is the sequel
of the story of the statues. In that case our friend the image-
breaker has begun operations in another quarter of London.
There's coffee on the table, Watson, and I have a cab at the
door."
In half an hour we had reached Pitt Street, a quiet little
backwater just beside one of the briskest currents of London life.
No. 131 was one of a row, all flat-chested, respectable, and
most unromantic dwellings. As we drove up, we found the rail-
ings in front of the house lined by a curious crowd. Holmes
whistled.
"By George! it's attempted murder at the least. Nothing less
will hold the London message-boy. There's a deed of violence
indicated in that fellow's round shoulders and outstretched
neck. What's this, Watson? The top steps swilled down and
the other ones dry. Footsteps enough, anyhow! Well, well,
there's Lestrade at the front window, and we shall soon know
all about it."
The official received us with a very grave face and showed us
into a sitting-room, where an exceedingly unkempt and agitated el-
derly man, clad in a flannel dressing-gown, was pacing up and
down. He was introduced to us as the owner of the house -- Mr.
Horace Harker, of the Central Press Syndicate.
"It's the Napoleon bust business again," said Lestrade. "You
seemed interested last night, Mr. Holmes, so I thought perhaps
you would be glad to be present now that the affair has taken a
very much graver turn."
"What has it turned to, then?"
"To murder. Mr. Harker, will you tell these gentlemen ex-
actly what has occurred?"
The man in the dressing-gown turned upon us with a most mel-
ancholy face.
"It's an extraordinary thing," said he, "that all my life I have
been collecting other people's news, and now that a real piece of
news has come my own way I am so confused and bothered that
I can't put two words together. If I had come in here as a
journalist, I should have interviewed myself and had two col-
umns in every evening paper. As it is, I am giving away valu-
able copy by telling my story over and over to a string of
different people, and I can make no use of it myself. However,
I've heard your name, Mr. Sherlock Holmes, and if you'll only
explain this queer business, I shall be paid for my trouble in
telling you the story."
Holmes sat down and listened.
"It all seems to centre round that bust of Napoleon which I
bought for this very room about four months ago. I picked it up
cheap from Harding Brothers, two doors from the High Street
Station. A great deal of my journalistic work is done at night,
and I often write until the early morning. So it was to-day. I was
sitting in my den, which is at the back of the top of the house,
about three o'clock, when I was convinced that l heard some
sounds downstairs. I listened, but they were not repeated, and I
concluded that they came from outside. Then suddenly, about
five minutes later, there came a most horrible yell -- the most
dreadful sound, Mr. Holmes, that ever I heard. It will ring in my
ears as long as I live. I sat frozen with horror for a minute or
two. Then I seized the poker and went downstairs. When I
entered this room I found the window wide open, and I at once
observed that the bust was gone from the mantelpiece. Why any
burglar should take such a thing passes my understanding, for it
was only a plaster cast and of no real value whatever.
"You can see for yourself that anyone going out through that
open window could reach the front doorstep by taking a long
stride. This was clearly what the burglar had done, so I went
round and opened the door. Stepping out into the dark, I nearly
fell over a dead man, who was lying there. I ran back for a light,
and there was the poor fellow, a great gash in his throat and the
whole place swimming in blood. He lay on his back, his knees
drawn up, and his mouth horribly open. I shall see him in my
dreams. I had just time to blow on my police-whistle, and then I
must have fainted, for I knew nothing more until I found the
policeman standing over me in the hall."
"Well, who was the murdered man?" asked Holmes.
"There's nothing to show who he was," said Lestrade. "You
shall see the body at the mortuary, but we have made nothing of
it up to now. He is a tall man, sunburned, very powerful, not
more than thirty. He is poorly dressed, and yet does not appear
to be a labourer. A horn-handled clasp knife was lying in a pool
of blood beside him. Whether it was the weapon which did the
deed, or whether it belonged to the dead man, I do not know.
There was no name on his clothing, and nothing in his pockets
save an apple, some string, a shilling map of London, and a
photograph. Here it is."
It was evidently taken by a snapshot from a small camera. It
represented an alert, sharp-featured simian man. with thick eye-
brows and a very peculiar projection of the lower part of the
face, like the muzzle of a baboon.
"And what became of the bust?" asked Holmes, after a
careful study of this picture.
"We had news of it just before you came. It has been found in
the front garden of an empty house in Campden House Road. It
was broken into fragments. I am going round now to see it. Will
you come?"
"Certainly. I must just take one look round." He examined
the carpet and the window. "The fellow had either very long
legs or was a most active man," said he. "With an area beneath,
it was no mean feat to reach that window-ledge and open that
window. Getting back was comparatively simple. Are you com-
ing with us to see the remains of your bust, Mr. Harker?"
The disconsolate journalist had seated himself at a writing-table.
"I must try and make something of it," said he, "though I
have no doubt that the first editions of the evening papers are out
already with full details. It's like my luck! You remember when
the stand fell at Doncaster? Well, I was the only journalist in the
stand, and my journal the only one that had no account of it, for
I was too shaken to write it. And now I'll be too late with a
murder done on my own doorstep."
As we left the room, we heard his pen travelling shrilly over
the foolscap.
The spot where the fragments of the bust had been found was
only a few hundred yards away. For the first time our eyes rested
upon this presentment of the great emperor, which seemed to
raise such frantic and destructive hatred in the mind of the
unknown. It lay scattered, in splintered shards, upon the grass.
Holmes picked up several of them and examined them carefully.
I was convinced, from his intent face and his purposeful manner,
that at last he was upon a clue.
"Well?" asked Lestrade.
Holmes shrugged his shoulders.
"We have a long way to go yet," said he. "And yet -- and
yet -- well, we have some suggestive facts to act upon. The
possession of this trifling bust was worth more, in the eyes of
this strange criminal, than a human life. That is one point. Then
there is the singular fact that he did not break it in the house, or
immediately outside the house, if to break it was his sole object."
"He was rattled and bustled by meeting this other fellow. He
hardly knew what he was doing."
"Well, that's likely enough. But I wish to call your attention
very particularly to the position of this house, in the garden of
which the bust was destroyed."
Lestrade looked about him.
"It was an empty house, and so he knew that he would not be
disturbed in the garden."
"Yes, but there is another empty house farther up the street
which he must have passed before he came to this one. Why did
he not break it there, since it is evident that every yard that he
carried it increased the risk of someone meeting him?"
"I give it up," said Lestrade.
Holmes pointed to the street lamp above our heads.
"He could see what he was doing here, and he could not
there. That was his reason."
"By Jove! that's true," said the detective. "Now that I come
to think of it, Dr. Barnicot's bust was broken not far from his red
lamp. Well, Mr. Holmes, what are we to do with that fact?"
"To remember it -- to docket it. We may come on something
later which will bear upon it. What steps do you propose to take
now, Lestrade?"
"The most practical way of getting at it, in my opinion, is to
identify the dead man. There should be no difficulty about that.
When we have found who he is and who his associates are, we
should have a good start in learning what he was doing in Pitt
Street last night, and who it was who met him and killed him on
the doorstep of Mr. Horace Harker. Don't you think so?"
"No doubt; and yet it is not quite the way in which I should
approach the case."
"What would you do then?"
"Oh, you must not let me influence you in any way. I suggest
that you go on your line and I on mine. We can compare notes
afterwards, and each will supplement the other."
"Very good," said Lestrade.
"If you are going back to Pitt Street, you might see Mr.
Horace Harker. Tell him for me that I have quite made up my
mind, and that it is certain that a dangerous homicidal lunatic,
with Napoleonic delusions, was in his house last night. It will be
useful for his article."
Lestrade stared.
"You don't seriously believe that?"
Holmes smiled.
"Don't I? Well, perhaps I don't. But I am sure that it will
interest Mr. Horace Harker and the subscribers of the Central
Press Syndicate. Now, Watson, I think that we shall find that we
have a long and rather complex day's work before us. I should
be glad, Lestrade, if you could make it convenient to meet us at
Baker Street at six o'clock this evening. Until then I should like
to keep this photograph, found in the dead man's pocket. It is
possible that I may have to ask your company and assistance
upon a small expedition which will have to be undertaken to-
night, if my chain of reasoning should prove to be correct. Until
then good-bye and good luck!"
Sherlock Holmes and I walked together to the High Street,
where we stopped at the shop of Harding Brothers, whence the
bust had been purchased. A young assistant informed us that Mr.
Harding would be absent until afternoon, and that he was himself
a newcomer, who could give us no information. Holmes's face
showed his disappointment and annoyance.
"Well, well, we can't expect to have it all our own way,
Watson," he said, at last. "We must come back in the after-
noon, if Mr. Harding will not be here until then. I am, as you
have no doubt surmised, endeavouring to trace these busts to
their source, in order to find if there is not something peculiar
which may account for their remarkable fate. Let us make for
Mr. Morse Hudson, of the Kennington Road, and see if he can
throw any light upon the problem."
A drive of an hour brought us to the picture-dealer's establish-
ment. He was a small, stout man with a red face and a peppery
manner.
"Yes, sir. On my very counter, sir," said he. "What we pay
rates and taxes for I don't know, when any ruffian can come in
and break one's goods. Yes, sir, it was I who sold Dr. Barnicot
his two statues. Disgraceful, sir! A Nihilist plot -- that's what I
make it. No one but an anarchist would go about breaking
statues. Red republicans -- that's what I call 'em. Who did I get
the statues from? I don't see what that has to do with it. Welll, if
you really want to know, I got them from Gelder & Co., in
Church Street, Stepney. They are a well-known house in the
trade, and have been this twenty years. How many had l?
Three -- two and one are three -- two of Dr. Barnicot's, and one
smashed in broad daylight on my own counter. Do I know that
photograph? No, I don't. Yes, I do, though. Why, it's Beppo.
He was a kind of Italian piece-work man, who made himself
useful in the shop. He could carve a bit, and gild and frame, and
do odd jobs. The fellow left me last week, and I've heard
nothing of him since. No, I don't know where he came from nor
where he went to. I had nothing against him while he was here.
He was gone two days before the bust was smashed."
"Well, that's all we could reasonably expect from Morse
Hudson," said Holmes, as we emerged from the shop. "We
have this Beppo as a common factor, both in Kennington and in
Kensington, so that is worth a ten-mile drive. Now, Watson, let
us make for Gelder & Co., of Stepney, the source and origin of
the busts. I shall be surprised if we don't get some help down
there."
In rapid succession we passed through the fringe of fashion-
able London, hotel London, theatrical London, literary London,
commercial London, and, finally, maritime London, till we came
to a riverside city of a hundred thousand souls, where the
tenement houses swelter and reek with the outcasts of Europe.
Here, in a broad thoroughfare, once the abode of wealthy City
merchants, we found the sculpture works for which we searched.
Outside was a considerable yard full of monumental masonry.
Inside was a large room in which fifty workers were carving or
moulding. The manager, a big blond German, received us civilly
and gave a clear answer to all Holmes's questions. A reference
to his books showed that hundreds of casts had been taken from
a marble copy of Devine's head of Napoleon, but that the three
which had been sent to Morse Hudson a year or so before had
been half of a batch of six, the other three being sent to Harding
Brothers, of Kensington. There was no reason why those six
should be different from any of the other casts. He could suggest
no possible cause why anyone should wish to destroy them -- in
fact, he laughed at the idea. Their wholesale price was six
shillings, but the retailer would get twelve or more. The cast
was taken in two moulds from each side of the face, and then
these two profiles of plaster of Paris were joined together to
make the complete bust. The work was usually done by Italians,
in the room we were in. When finished, the busts were put on a
table in the passage to dry, and afterwards stored. That was all
he could tell us.
But the production of the photograph had a remarkable effect
upon the manager. His face flushed with anger, and his brows
knotted over his blue Teutonic eyes.
"Ah, the rascal!" he cried. "Yes, indeed, I know him very
well. This has always been a respectable establishment, and the
only time that we have ever had the police in it was over this
very fellow. It was more than a year ago now. He knifed another
Italian in the street, and then he came to the works with the
police on his heels, and he was taken here. Beppo was his
name -- his second name I never knew. Serve me right for engag-
ing a man with such a face. But he was a good workman -- one
of the best."
"What did he get?"
"The man lived and he got off with a year. I have no doubt he
is out now, but he has not dared to show his nose here. We have
a cousin of his here, and I daresay he could tell you where he
is."
"No, no," cried Holmes, "not a word to the cousin -- not a
word, I beg of you. The matter is very important, and the farther
I go with it, the more important it seems to grow. When you
referred in your ledger to the sale of those casts I observed that
the date was June 3rd of last year. Could you give me the date
when Beppo was arrested?"
"I could tell you roughly by the pay-list," the manager an-
swered. "Yes," he continued, after some turning over of pages,
"he was paid last on May 20th."
"Thank you," said Holmes. "I don't think that I need intrude
upon your time and patience any more." With a last word of
caution that he should say nothing as to our researches, we
turned our faces westward once more.
The afternoon was far advanced before we were able to snatch
a hasty luncheon at a restaurant. A news-bill at the entrance
announced "Kensington Outrage. Murder by a Madman," and
the contents of the paper showed that Mr. Horace Harker had got
his account into print after all. Two columns were occupied with
a highly sensational and flowery rendering of the whole incident.
Holmes propped it against the cruet-stand and read it while he
ate. Once or twice he chuckled.
"This is all right, Watson," said he. "Listen to this:

"It is satisfactory to know that there can be no difference
of opinion upon this case, since Mr. Lestrade, one of the
most experienced members of the official force, and Mr.
Sherlock Holmes, the well-known consulting expert, have
each come to the conclusion that the grotesque series of
incidents, which have ended in so tragic a fashion, arise
from lunacy rather than from deliberate crime. No explana-
tion save mental aberration can cover the facts.

The Press, Watson, is a most valuable institution. if you only
know how to use it. And now, if you have quite finished, we
will hark back to Kensington and see what the manager of
Harding Brothers has to say on the matter."
The founder of that great emporium proved to be a brisk, crisp
little person, very dapper and quick, with a clear head and a
ready tongue.
"Yes, sir, I have already read the account in the evening
papers. Mr. Horace Harker is a customer of ours. We supplied
him with the bust some months ago. We ordered three busts of
that sort from Gelder & Co., of Stepney. They are all sold now.
To whom? Oh, I daresay by consulting our sales book we could
very easily tell you. Yes, we have the entries here. One to Mr.
Harker you see, and one to Mr. Josiah Brown, of Laburnum
Lodge, Laburnum Vale, Chiswick, and one to Mr. Sandeford, of
Lower Grove Road, Reading. No, I have never seen this face
which you show me in the photograph. You would hardly forget
it, would you, sir, for I've seldom seen an uglier. Have we any
Italians on the staff? Yes, sir, we have several among our
workpeople and cleaners. I daresay they might get a peep at that
sales book if they wanted to. There is no particular reason for
keeping a watch upon that book. Well, well, it's a very strange
business, and I hope that you will let me know if anything comes
of your inquiries."
Holmes had taken several notes during Mr. Harding's evi-
dence, and I could see that he was thoroughly satisfied by the
turn which affairs were taking. He made no remark, however
save that, unless we hurried, we should be late for our appoint-
ment with Lestrade. Sure enough, when we reached Baker Street
the detective was already there, and we found him pacing up and
down in a fever of impatience. His look of importance showed
that his day's work had not been in vain.
"Well?" he asked. "What luck, Mr. Holmes?"
"We have had a very busy day, and not entirely a wasted
one," my friend explained. "We have seen both the retailers and
also the wholesale manufacturers. I can trace each of the busts
now from the beginning."
"The busts!" cried Lestrade. "Well, well, you have your own
methods, Mr. Sherlock Holmes, and it is not for me to say a
word against them, but I think I have done a better day's work
than you. I have identified the dead man."
"You don't say so?"
"And found a cause for the crime."
"Splendid!"
"We have an inspector who makes a specialty of Saffron Hill
and the Italian quarter. Well, this dead man had some Catholic
emblem round his neck. and that, along with his colour, made
me think he was from the South. Inspector Hill knew him the
moment he caught sight of him. His name is Pietro Venucci,
from Naples, and he is one of the greatest cut-throats in Lon-
don. He is connected with the Mafia, which, as you know, is a
secret political society, enforcing its decrees by murder. Now,
you see how the affair begins to clear up. The other fellow is
probably an Italian also, and a member of the Mafia. He has
broken the rules in some fashion. Pietro is set upon his track.
Probably the photograph we found in his pocket is the man him-
self, so that he may not knife the wrong person. He dogs the
fellow, he sees him enter a house, he waits outside for him, and
in the scuffle he receives his own death-wound. How is that, Mr.
Sherlock Holmes?"
Holmes clapped his hands approvingly.
"Excellent, Lestrade, excellent!" he cried. "But I didn't quite
follow your explanation of the destruction of the busts."
"The busts! You never can get those busts out of your head.
After all, that is nothing; petty larceny, six months at the most. It
is the murder that we are really investigating, and I tell you that I
am gathering all the threads into my hands."
"And the next stage?"
"Is a very simple one. I shall go down with Hill to the Italian
Quarter, find the man whose photograph we have got, and arrest
him on the charge of murder. Will you come with us?"
"I think not. I fancy we can attain our end in a simpler way. I
can't say for certain, because it all depends -- well, it all depends
upon a factor which is completely outside our control. But I have
great hopes -- in fact, the betting is exactly two to one -- that if
you will come with us to-night I shall be able to help you to lay
him by the heels."
"In the Italian Quarter?"
"No, I fancy Chiswick is an address which is more likely to
find him. If you will come with me to Chiswick to-night,
Lestrade, I'll promise to go to the Italian Quarter with you
to-morrow, and no harm will be done by the delay. And now I
think that a few hours' sleep would do us all good, for I do not
propose to leave before eleven o'clock, and it is unlikely that we
shall be back before morning. You'll dine with us, Lestrade, and
then you are welcome to the sofa until it is time for us to start. In
the meantime, Watson, I should be glad if you would ring for an
express messenger, for I have a letter to send and it is imponant
that it should go at once."
Holmes spent the evening in rummaging among the files of the
old daily papers with which one of our lumber-rooms was packed.
When at last he descended, it was with triumph in his eyes, but
he said nothing to either of us as to the result of his researches.
For my own part, I had followed step by step the methods by
which he had traced the various windings of this complex case,
and, though I could not yet perceive the goal which we would
reach, I understood clearly that Holmes expected this grotesque
criminal to make an attempt upon the two remaining busts, one
of which, I remembered, was at Chiswick. No doubt the object
of our journey was to catch him in the very act, and I could not
but admire the cunning with which my friend had inserted a
wrong clue in the evening paper, so as to give the fellow the idea
that he could continue his scheme with impunity. I was not
surprised when Holmes suggested that I should take my revolver
with me. He had himself picked up the loaded hunting-crop,
which was his favourite weapon.
A four-wheeler was at the door at eleven, and in it we drove
to a spot at the other side of Hammersmith Bridge. Here the
cabman was directed to wait. A short walk brought us to a
secluded road fringed with pleasant houses, each standing in its
own grounds. In the light of a street lamp we read "Laburnum
Villa" upon the gate-post of one of them. The occupants had
evidently retired to rest, for all was dark save for a fanlight over
the hall door, which shed a single blurred circle on to the garden
path. The wooden fence which separated the grounds from the
road threw a dense black shadow upon the inner side, and here it
was that we crouched.
"I fear that you'll have a long wait," Holmes whispered.
"We may thank our stars that it is not raining. I don't think we
can even venture to smoke to pass the time. However, it's a two
to one chance that we get something to pay us for our trouble."
It proved, however, that our vigil was not to be so long as
Holmes had led us to fear, and it ended in a very sudden and
singular fashion. In an instant, without the least sound to warn us
of his coming, the garden gate swung open, and a lithe, dark
figure, as swift and active as an ape, rushed up the garden path.
We saw it whisk past the light thrown from over the door and
disappear against the black shadow of the house. There was a
long pause, during which we held our breath, and then a very
gentle creaking sound came to our ears. The window was being
opened. The noise ceased, and again there was a long silence.
The fellow was making his way into the house. We saw the
sudden flash of a dark lantern inside the room. What he sought
was evidently not there, for again we saw the flash through
another blind. and then through another.
"Let us get to the open window. We will nab him as he
climbs out." Lestrade whispered.
But before we could move. the man had emerged again. As he
came out into the glimmering patch of light, we saw that he
carrled something white under his arm. He looked stealthily all
round him. The silence of the deserted street reassured him.
Turning his back upon us he laid down his burden, and the next
instant there was the sound of a sharp tap, followed by a clatter
and rattle. The man was so intent upon what he was doing that
he never heard our steps as we stole across the grass plot. With
the bound of a tiger Holmes was on his back, and an instant later
Lestrade and I had him by either wrist, and the handcuffs had
been fastened. As we turned him over I saw a hideous, sallow
face, with writhing, furious features. glaring up at us, and I
knew that it was indeed the man of the photograph whom we had
secured.
But it was not our prisoner to whom Holmes was giving his
attention. Squatted on the doorstep, he was engaged in most
carefully examining that which the man had brought from the
house. It was a bust of Napoleon. Iike the one which we had
seen that morning, and it had been broken into similar frag-
ments. Carefully Holmes held each separate shard to the light,
but in no way did it differ from any other shattered piece of
plaster. He had just completed his examination when the hall
lights flew up, the door opened, and the owner of the house, a
jovial, rotund figure in shirt and trousers, presented himseli.
"Mr. Josiah Brown, I suppose?" said Holmes.
"Yes, sir and you, no doubt, are Mr. Sherlock Holmes? I had
the note which you sent by the express messenger, and I did
exactly what you told me. We locked every door on the inside
and awaited developments. Well, I'm very glad to see that you
have got the rascal. I hope, gentlemen, that you will come in and
have some refreshment."
However, Lestrade was anxious to get his man into safe
quarters, so within a few minutes our cab had bcen summoned
and we were all tour upon our way to London. Not a word
would our captive say. but he glared at us from thc shadow of
his matted hair. and once. when my hand seemed within his
reach, he snapped at it like a hungry wolf. We stayed long
enough at the police-station to learn that a search of his clothing
revealed nothing save a few shillings and a long sheath knife, the
handle of which bore copious traces of recent blood.
"That's all right," said Lestrade, as we parted. "Hill knows
all these gentry, and he will give a name to him. You'll find that
my theory of the Mafia will work out all right. But I'm sure I am
exceedingly obliged to you, Mr. Holmes, for the workmanlike
way in which you laid hands upon him. I don't quite understand
it all yet."
"I fear it is rather too late an hour for explanations," said
Holmes. "Besides, there are one or two details which are not
finished off, and it is one of those cases which are worth
working out to the very end. If you will come round once more
to my rooms at six o'clock to-morrow, I think I shall be able to
show you that even now you have not grasped the entire meaning
of this business, which presents some features which make it
absolutely original in the history of crime. If ever I permit you to
chronicle any more of my little problems, Watson, I foresee that
you will enliven your pages by an account of the singular
adventure of the Napoleonic busts."
When we met again next evening, Lestrade was furnished with
much information concerning our prisoner. His name, it ap-
peared, was Beppo, second name unknown. He was a well-
known ne'er-do-well among the Italian colony. He had once
been a skilful sculptor and had earned an honest living, but he
had taken to evil courses and had twice already been in jail --
once for a petty theft, and once, as we had already heard, for
stabbing a fellow-countryman. He could talk English perfectly
well. His reasons for destroying the busts were still unknown,
and he refused to answer any questions upon the subject, but the
police had discovered that these same busts might very well have
been made by his own hands, since he was engaged in this class
of work at the establishment of Gelder & Co. To all this infor-
mation, much of which we already knew, Holmes listened with
polite attention, but I, who knew him so well, could clearly see
that his thoughts were elsewhere, and I detected a mixture of
mingled uneasiness and expectation beneath that mask which he
was wont to assume. At last he started in his chair, and his eyes
brightened. There had been a ring at the bell. A minute later we
heard steps upon the stairs, and an elderly red-faced man with
grizzled side-whiskers was ushered in. In his right hand he
carried an old-fashioned carpet-bag, which he placed upon the
table.
"Is Mr. Sherlock Holmes here?"
My friend bowed and smiled. "Mr. Sandeford, of Reading, I
suppose?" said he.
"Yes, sir, I fear that I am a little late, but the trains
were awkward. You wrote to me about a bust that is in my
possession."
"Exactly."
"I have your letter here. You said, 'I desire to possess a copy
of Devine's Napoleon, and am prepared to pay you ten pounds
for the one which is in your possession.' Is that right?"
"Certainly."
"I was very much surprised at your letter, for I could not
imagine how you knew that I owned such a thing."
"Of course you must have been surprised, but the explanation
is very simple. Mr. Harding, of Harding Brothers, said that they
had sold you their last copy, and he gave me your address."
"Oh, that was it, was it? Did he tell you what I paid for it?"
"No, he did not."
"Well, I am an honest man, though not a very rich one. I only
gave fifteen shillings for the bust, and I think you ought to know
that before I take ten pounds from you."
"I am sure the scruple does you honour, Mr. Sandeford. But I
have named that price, so I intend to stick to it."
"Well, it is very handsome of you, Mr. Holmes. I brought
the bust up with me, as you asked me to do. Here it is!" He
opened his bag, and at last we saw placed upon our table a
complete specimen of that bust which we had already seen more
than once in fragments.
Holmes took a paper from his pocket and laid a ten-pound
note upon the table.
"You will kindly sign that paper, Mr. Sandeford, in the
presence of these witnesses. It is simply to say that you transfer
every possible right that you ever had in the bust to me. I am a
methodical man, you see, and you never know what turn events
might take afterwards. Thank you, Mr. Sandeford; here is your
money, and I wish you a very good evening."
When our visitor had disappeared, Sherlock Holmes's move-
ments were such as to rivet our attention. He began by taking a
clean white cloth from a drawer and laying it over the table.
Then he placed his newly acquired bust in the centre of the cloth.
Finally, he picked up his hunting-crop and struck Napoleon a
sharp blow on the top of the head. The figure broke into frag-
ments, and Holmes bent eagerly over the shattered remains. Next
instant, with a loud shout of triumph he held up one splinter, in
which a round, dark object was fixed like a plum in a pudding.
"Gentlemen," he cried, "let me introduce you to the famous
black pearl of the Borgias."
Lestrade and I sat silent for a moment, and then, with a
spontaneous impulse, we both broke out clapping, as at the
well-wrought crisis of a play. A flush of colour sprang to Holmes's
pale cheeks, and he bowed to us like the master dramatist who
receives the homage of his audience. It was at such moments that
for an instant he ceased to be a reasoning machine, and betrayed
his human love for admiration and applause. The same singularly
proud and reserved nature which turned away with disdain from
popular notoriety was capable of being moved to its depths by
spontaneous wonder and praise from a friend.
"Yes, gentlemen," said he, "it is the most famous pearl now
existing in the world, and it has been my good fortune, by a
connected chain of inductive reasoning, to trace it from the
Prince of Colonna's bedroom at the Dacre Hotel, where it was
lost, to the interior of this, the last of the six busts of Napoleon
which were manufactured by Gelder & Co., of Stepney. You
will remember, Lestrade, the sensation caused by the disappear-
ance of this valuable jewel, and the vain efforts of the London
police to recover it. I was myself consulted upon the case, but I
was unable to throw any light upon it. Suspicion fell upon the
maid of the Princess, who was an Italian, and it was proved that
she had a brother in London, but we failed to trace any connec-
tion between them. The maid's name was Lucretia Venucci, and
there is no doubt in my mind that this Pietro who was murdered
two nights ago was the brother. I have been looking up the dates
in the old files of the paper, and I find that the disappearance of
the pearl was exactly two days before the arrest of Beppo, for
some crime of violence -- an event which took place in the
factory of Gelder & Co., at the very moment when these busts
were being made. Now you clearly see the sequence of events,
though you see them, of course, in the inverse order to the way
in which they presented themselves to me. Beppo had the pearl
in his possession. He may have stolen it from Pietro, he may
have been Pietro's confederate, he may have been the go-between
of Pietro and his sister. It is of no consequence to us which is the
correct solution.
"The main fact is that he had the pearl, and at that moment,
when it was on his person, he was pursued by the police. He
made for the factory in which he worked, and he knew that he
had only a few minutes in which to conceal this enormously
valuable prize, which would otherwise be found on him when he
was searched. Six plaster casts of Napoleon were drying in the
passage. One of them was still soft. In an instant Beppo, a
skilful workman, made a small hole in the wet plaster, dropped
in the pearl, and with a few touches covered over the aperture
once more. It was an admirable hiding-place. No one could
possibly find it. But Beppo was condemned to a year's imprison-
ment, and in the meanwhile his six busts were scattered over
London. He could not tell which contained his treasure. Only by
breaking them could he see. Even shaking would tell him noth-
ing, for as the plaster was wet it was probable that the pearl
would adhere to it -- as, in fact, it has done. Beppo did not
despair, and he conducted his search with considerable ingenuity
and perseverance. Through a cousin who works with Gelder, he
found out the retail firms who had bought the busts. He managed
to find employment with Morse Hudson, and in that way tracked
down three of them. The pearl was not there. Then, with the
help of some Italian employe, he succeeded in finding out where
the other three busts had gone. The first was at Harker's. There
he was dogged by his confederate, who held Beppo responsible
for the loss of the pearl, and he stabbed him in the scuffle which
followed."
"If he was his confederate, why should he carry his photo-
graph?" I asked.
"As a means of tracing him, if he wished to inquire about him
from any third person. That was the obvious reason. Well, after
the murder I calculated that Beppo would probably hurry rather
than delay his movements. He would fear that the police would
read his secret, and so he hastened on before they should get
ahead of him. Of course, I could not say that he had not found
the pearl in Harker's bust. I had not even concluded for certain
that it was the pearl, but it was evident to me that he was looking
for something, since he carried the bust past the other houses in
order to break it in the garden which had a lamp overlooking it.
Since Harker's bust was one in three, the chances were exactly
as I told you -- two to one against the pearl being inside it There
remained two busts, and it was obvious that he would go for the
London one first. I warned the inmates of the house, so as to
avoid a second tragedy, and we went down, with the happiest
results. By that time, of course, I knew for certain that it was the
Borgia pearl that we were after. The name of the murdered man
linked the one event with the other. There only remained a single
bust -- the Reading one -- and the pearl must be there. I bought it
in your presence from the owner -- and there it lies."
We sat in silence for a moment.
"Well," said Lestrade, "I've seen you handle a good many
cases, Mr. Holmes, but I don't know that I ever knew a more
workmanlike one than that. We're not jealous of you at Scotland
Yard. No, sir, we are very proud of you, and if you come down
to-morrow, there's not a man, from the oldest inspector to the
youngest constable, who wouldn't be glad to shake you by the
hand."
"Thank you!" said Holmes. "Thank you!" and as he turned
away, it seemed to me that he was more nearly moved by the
softer human emotions than I had ever seen him. A moment later
he was the cold and practical thinker once more. "Put the pearl
in the safe, Watson," said he, "and get out the papers of the
Conk-Singleton forgery case. Good-bye, Lestrade. If any little
problem comes your way, I shall be happy, if I can, to give you
a hint or two as to its solution."


THE SEVEN OLD SAMURAI

Once upon a time, in far off Japan, a band of fierce robbers had their
hiding place on top of a mountain almost always covered with grey clouds,
windswept and battered by storms. The robbers lived in a large cave where they
had piled their spoils. Now and again, they went down the mountain, attacked a
village, murdered the poor folk they chanced upon, stole whatever they could
lay hands on and burned it to the ground. Wherever the robbers passed, there
was nothing but smoking ruins, weeping men and women, misery, mournlng and
desolation.
The Emperor, worried at this, had sent his soldiers to attack the mountain,
but the robbers had always managed to drive them off. The Emperor sent for one
of the last remaining Samurai, old Raiko, and said to him:
"Raiko, you've served me for many years. Do my bidding for one last time.
Go to the mountain at the head of an army and wipe out these bloodthirsty
bandits." Raiko sighed.
"Your Majesty, if I were young again I'd do it alone. Today I'm too old,
far too old to do that, or to command an army."
"Must I then," said the Emperor, "submit to the force of these marauding
robbers?" The old Samurai replied:
"No, I'll go up there with six Samurai like myself."
"But if they're all as old as you, how can they help you?"
"Have faith in us!" said Raiko.
A few days later, the seven Samurai set off on their journey, not with
horses, swords, shields and armour, which they could no longer have worn
anyway, but dressed as humble pilgrims. From the summit, the bandits watched
them come, and their leader said,
"Who cares about seven beggars. Let them climb up." The seven reached the
cave and Raiko humbly said,
"Let us come in, it's cold outside. There's a wind blowing and we, as you
can see, are old men. We'll be no trouble to you." The leader of the gang
scornfully replied:
"Come in, old men, and stay in a corner." And so. the seven pilgrims
huddled in a corner while the bandits ate their meal of food stolen from the
villages nearby.
Now and again, they threw scraps of food and leftovers to the old men,
saying: "Eat this, and it is much too good for you." A few hours later, Raiko
rose to his feet saying:
"The wind has dropped. We can go on our way. In thanks. for your
hospitality, we would like to offer you this liqueur, it is sake, rice wine.
Drink our health with it." The robbers needed no second telling. In the blink
of an eye, they had emptied the goatskin bottle Raika held out to them. And in
the blink of an eye they all lay dead, for the sake contained a very potent
poison. And so, the seven Samurai, too old to wield a sword, served the
Emperor for the last time.


THE SEVEN VOYAGES OF SINBAD THE SAILOR

Once upon a time years and years ago in Baghdad there lived a porter called
Sinbad. As he was passing a palace one day, he saw a bench in the great
doorway and thought he would rest on it. So he put down his load, and was
about to sit down when curiosity got the better of him and, slipping through
the entrance he went into the gardens. To Sinbad it was like heaven.
Everywhere there were flower beds, gushing fountains and palm trees, in
whose shade many gentlemen were strolling. while pages served them with cakes
and drinks. Sinbad couldn't help exclaiming aloud:
"Well I never! Here I am, worked to the bone, poor and always hungry while
other lucky men never carry burdens, but enjoy good food and drink. And yet,
we're all Allah's sons! What a world of difference between me and the people
who live here." Sinbad had barely stopped speaking when one of the pages came
across to him and said:
"Come with me. My master wishes to speak to you." Rather alarmed, Sinbad
followed the lad into a hall where the owner of the house was seated amongst
his guests.
"Come in," he said. "What's your name?"
"Sinbad, the Porter."
"My name is Sinbad too. Sinbad the Sailor. I hear you've been complaining,
but I'd like you to know that I became rich only by working hard and taking
dreadful risks. All this during seven amazing but adventurous voyages. I
haven't had an easy life, you know. Sit down and I'll tell you my story."
"My father," began Sinbad the Sailor, "was a merchant. When he died, he
left me a fortune. I was young then and foolish, and I started to squander my
riches until one day, I discovered my money had gone. I didn't lose heart,
however, for I decided to become a merchant like my father. With the money I
earned from selling my furniture and carpets I bought all the goods I could
and set out. I boarded a ship at Bassora with other traders and began to trade
in every port. One day, the captain dropped anchor near a beautiful island and
we went ashore. We had hardly lit the fires to cook our meal when the captain
suddenly shouted;
'Quick! Get away! This is no island. It's a huge fish that's been sleeping
on the waves so long that trees have grown on it. The heat from the fires is
wakening it. It will dive to the deep any minute now. Back to the ship! Drop
everything!'
Many managed to climb aboard again, but I was too far away and ended up in
the sea. Luckily I found a floating empty barrel. Clinging to this and
drifting with the winds and currents, I reached an island. As I came ashore, I
saw a mare tethered to a stump. Then a man appeared and asked me:
'Who are you? Where have you come from?'
'I've been shipwrecked,' I said. The man went on:
'Follow me,' he said and took me to a cave, where he offered me some food.
I told him of my adventure and he listened in amazement. I was dying to know
why he kept his horse tethered at the shore.
'I used to be one of King Mihragian's grooms' he replied. 'When the moon is
full, we tether the mares on the beach so they can meet with the sea horses.
The foals that are born are so beautiful there are none like them in the whole
world. This is the time of the new moon and the sea stallions arrive. When
it's all over, I'll take you to the king. You're very lucky, you know, for
you'd have died of hunger on this desert island if you hadn't met me.'
My rescuer introduced me to his friends and they gave me a friendly
welcome. Later, back in the city the grooms told the king about my adventure.
'It was Allah's will that you should be saved,' the ruler told me after
listening carefully. 'It's your destiny to live a long life.' Because he felt
I was under the protection of Allah himself, he showered me with gifts and
favours. I was appointed harbourmaster; it was my job to keep a register of
all freight in transit and so I found myself in an excellent post.
Just the same, I felt homesick, and every time a ship came in, I asked the
captain if he was bound for Baghdad, for I intended to ask him for a passage
home. One day, however, as I took a note of the cargo on a ship that had just
tied up, I asked:
'Anything else on board?'
'Yes,' replied the captain. 'There's still a certain quantity of goods
aboard. The owner was lost at sea and must have drowned. I'm going to see if I
can sell them and take the money back to his family in Baghdad.'
'What was the name of the man who was lost?' I enquired.
'Sinbad the Sailor.' I let out a shout.
'I am Sinbad the Sailor! I clung to a barrel that saved my life and drifted
ashore on an island. There, thanks be to Allah, I met the royal grooms. And it
was the king himself who made me harbourmaster. The goods you're carrying on
board your ship belong to me.'
'Well, what a story! I've never heard anything like it!' exclaimed the
captain. 'Isn't there an honest soul left in the world?'
'Captain!' I gasped. 'Why won't you believe what I say?'
'Because it's perfectly obvious,' he replied, 'that you heard the trader
had drowned and now, by inventing a ridiculous adventure, you hope to lay
hands on his property!' At that point, I described to the captain every single
thing that had taken place on board his ship since the moment it had weighed
anchor. He was forced to believe I was telling the truth.
'Good gracious!' everyone gasped. 'We certainly never dreamt that you were
safe and sound.'
I got my trading goods back and immediately thought of something precious
to give to the king. He was astounded at what had happened, but everyone
assured him that every word was true. He too gave me a gift and allowed me to
leave with all my belongings. I went aboard. Some days later, I was at
Bassora and then back to Baghdad. I had grown far richer than before and
quickly forgot all my past suffering."
When Sinbad the Sailor had ended his tale, he gave Sinbad the Porter three
gold coins and told him to return the next day.
The following day, after providing the porter and the other guests with a
delicious meal, Sinbad the Sailor again began to speak.
"One day, I again had a great desire to travel. I decided to invest some of
my money in trading goods and went on board ship at Bassora for my second
voyage. To begin with, it was a pleasant journey. Then one day, we reached a
strange desert island. Many of the passengers decided to go ashore and I sat
down on the bank of a river and fell fast asleep. When I awoke there was not a
soul in sight. The ship had sailed, for the captain had forgot all about me.
However, I decided to climb a tree and survey the island. It was then that
I discovered a great white dome.
Full of hope, I marched in the direction of the dome. but as I drew near, I
realised it had no doors. The sun had not yet set and the sky was a fiery
pink. Suddenly, everything went dark, as though night had fallen. I looked up
and saw an enormous bird with outstretch wings, shutting out the sunlight. I
remembered then of hearing about a bird so huge it fed its nestlings
elephants. The bird's name was Rukh. Just then I realised that the dome was
really one of Rukh's eggs. Indeed, the great bird settled on top of the egg
and dropped of t6o sleep. I unwound my turban and twisted it to make a rope. I
tied the end of it round the bird's leg so that it would carry me away with
it. At the first light of dawn, the bird woke, spread its immense wings and
took flight. So high did it rise into the sky that the earth almost vanished
from sight, but it landed on a plateau. I undid the knot. Rukh floated down
into the valley below and when he returned, it was with a large snake in his
beak. Nobody lived on this plateau and, on the other side of the valley lay a
mountain far too high for anyone ever to climb.
All I could do was clamber down into the valley. When I got there, I saw
the ground was littered with diamonds and full of terrible snakes. I couldn't
help shuddering. Luckily, the snakes were not moving about that day, for fear
of Rukh, but darkness was about to fall. I found a cave and blocked the
entrance with a rock.
In the morning, I left the cave and started to roam the valley searching
for a way out. Suddenly I came upon the carcass of an animal. Just then I
remembered once hearing the story of a doomed valley, into which diamond
hunters would throw a large dead animal. The precious gems stuck to the
carcass and the hunters would then wait for a vulture or eagle to appear. The
bird of prey would swoop down on the meat and carry it away in its talons to
the plateau above. There, the diamond hunters, shouting and yelling, forced
the bird to give up its prey. With this tale in mind, I filled my pockets with
diamonds then roped myself to the dead animal.
A little later, a huge eagle carried the carcass and me to the plateau. It
was just about to tear into the flesh with its beak, when some men appeared,
shouting loudly. The eagle flapped away and, though my clothes were
bloodstained, I was alive!
I told the diamond hunters about my adventure and gave some diamonds to the
man who had thrown the carcass into the valley. They all told me I was under
Allah's own protection. I had come out alive from the valley of the snakes;
something nobody else had ever done before. Next day, I set off homewards. I
bartered some of the diamonds for goods to sell and became richer than ever.
When I arrived in Baghdad, my friends and relations welcomed me with delight
and, again forgetting all my trials and troubles, I went back to an easy life.
And that's the tale of my second voyage.
I'll tell you about the third tomorrow. It's time to eat now," ended Sinbad
the Sailor.
Sinbad the bearer of burdens had, like all those present, listened
wide-eyed to this story, and again that evening, he found himself gifted
another three gold coins. Of course, next day, he hurried back to the sailor's
home. He sat at his side till the rich man's friends came, then they sat down
to a cheerful feast. When the meal was over, Sinbad the Sailor told the tale
of his third voyage.
"Rich as I was, I wanted to become even richer. So I got a passage again at
Bassora, on a fine vessel, together with other merchants.
One day, we ran into a fierce storm and the captain began to cry:
'The ship is out of control! The sails are in tatters! Let's hope we can
find shelter in the lee of Monkey Mountain. Though the monkeys are dangerous
beasts!`
Shortly after this, the ship ran aground on the shore of a strange island
and, in next to no time. we were surrounded by a tribe of monkeys. About the
height of a child, hairy and smelly, they rushed about as we stood there
without moving a muscle, afraid of what they might do. All we could do was
stand aside and watch them swarm up the masts and tear the rubber lifeboats
with their sharp teeth.
Soon after, a giant wave swept the vessel out to sea, with the horrid
creatures still aboard, together with all our cargo. As we wandered over the
island, we caught sight of a huge castle-like building. Though very much
afraid, we ventured through the gateway. The castle looked deserted, but
somebody certainly lived there for, in the middle of the courtyard stood a
large bench and a bonfire of logs was ablaze.
We all sank on to the bench and, overcome by fatigue, fell fast asleep. As
evening came the ground began to tremble. A terrifying creature was
approaching us. It was a real ogre, gigantic with fierce red eyes, long fangs
like those of a wild pig, a great mouth and huge ears. The ogre grabbed me and
started to prod me with his enormous hands. Luckily I was too skinny for his
taste, so he picked out the plumpest of my companions, killed and made a meal
of him. After this meal, he stretched out on the bench and slept whiie we
shrank trembling in a corner, unable to sleep a wink. Next morning, the giant
went off after locking the door behind him. For us it was a day of terror and
the giant, when he returned, picked out another of our little band and made a
meal of him too. As soon as he had fallen asleep, we came to a decision:
'We must kill him while he's asleep!' So we put two long sticks into the
coals and when they were burning hot, thrust them into the giant's eyes. The
ogre leapt to his feet with a scream, knocking us over as he did. Now blinded,
he was quite unable to catch us. He fumbled his way to the door and stumbled
out, screaming horribly as he went. We ran as fast as we could down to the sea
and hastily made a raft out of pieces of driftwood. The raft was barely in the
water when we saw the giant coming, with an even more horrible-looking
giantess.
They started to hurl great rocks at us, and we were hit more than once.
Before we could escape their reach, they had managed to kill all my companions
except two. Though by now the raft was scarcely afloat, it carried all three
of us to another island. Not knowing where we were, we roamed all day, meeting
no-one at all, and fell sound asleep when night fell.
It was not a peaceful night, however. A giant snake crept up and gobbled
down one of my friends. Then it curled up and went to sleep. Shaking with
terror, my remaining companion and I climbed a tree. Thinking he was sure to
be safe there, my friend settled down in the lowest forked branch. This was to
save my life. For the snake later finding the poor man an easy victim, ate him
up rather than climb to the top of the tree for me. I didn't see how I could
ever get away from this place alive. However, I had an idea. Picking up the
planks lying round about, I tied one under my feet, another on each side, one
along my stomach, another at my back and the last as a roof over my head. This
gave me a sort of armour. When, late that night, the snake did its best to
devour me, it could not, no matter how hard it tried. My wooden armour
withstood the crushing. The reptile squeezed and squeezed till dawn. but as
the sun came up, it wearily gave up and slithered away. I untied the planks
and set off in search of food. My wanderings took me to the tip of the island,
high above the sea. As I sat there, downhearted, staring at the water, I saw a
ship sail past only a few hundred yards from the shore. The crew heard my
cries and I was safe at last. I was hoisted aboard, fed and clothed and later
I told them my amazing tale, which naturally astonished those who heard it. A
fair wind swept us safely into the port of Salahita.
The captain then said to me:
'You're a poor unfortunate stranger here, but I'd like to give you another
chance. This ship is carrying a batch of goods belonging to one of the
passengers who vanished on a desert island. Nothing has ever been heard of him
again. I'm going to sell these articles and take the money back to his family.
If you like, you can try selling them. I'll give you a commission on what you
manage to sell.'
I thanked the captain for his kindness; I was desperately in need. However,
the bosun who was busy listing the cargo, asked a question:
'Captain,' he said, 'what name do I put on these goods?'
'Mark them as Sinbad the Sailor's. That's the name of the man who
disappeared. '
'But I'm Sinbad the Sailor!' I exclaimed. 'And I didn't disappear at all. I
fell asleep on the island and when I awoke, you had all gone. These are my
goods. The diamond hunters I met on the mountain, to whom I told my tale, will
vouch for all this.'
The crowd of seamen and merchants that had clustered round to listen, began
to murmur amongst themselves. Some believed my words, others swore I was a
liar. Suddenly, however, on hearing the words 'diamond hunters', one of the
merchants came up to me and, after a good stare, exclaimed:
'Do you remember when I told you all about the man roped to the carcass I
threw into Diamond Valley? Well, this is him! I know his face. Everything he
says is true.' At that, the captain sharply demanded:
'What marks do your goods have on them? Which are they?' I told him and he
too realised that I was none other than Sinbad. That's how I got my belongings
back and was able to go on trading as though nothing had happened. When I
returned home, I saw that I was even richer than before. That's all I have to
tell about my third voyage," Sinbad said, "but if you come back tomorrow, I'll
describe the fourth one."
Thus saying, he ordered that the bearer of burdens should be given three
gold coins. Next morning, Sinbad the Porter hurried back to his rich friend.
They enjoyed a meal and waited till all the other guests had appeared. Then
Sinbad the Sailor started to tell the story of his fourth adventure.
"As in the past, I began to feel the urge to travel, and I knew I had to go
back to sea. I bought a great quantity of goods, said goodbye and went to
Bassora to find a ship. To begin with, the voyage was all plain sailing. Till
the day a hurricane ripped the sails and broke up the ship. We all ended in
the sea, though most of us were able to cling to bits of wreckage and keep
afloat. Then the waters grew calm again and the waves washed us ashore on an
island. Our first thought was to look for food and as we did so, we came upon
a building. A band of naked men rushed out, without uttering a sound and shut
us up in a large pen. They brought us such strange food that I, who did not
trust them, refused to eat. But, overcome by hunger, my friends gobbled it
down. This was to lead to their ruin, for the more they ate, as though by
magic, the hungrier they felt.
In horror, I realised that the naked men were the subjects of an ogre. They
caught shipwrecked sailors, fattened them up with special food and then when
they were nice and plump, strangled and roasted them. While my friends,
already out of their minds, were led to pasture just like farm animals, I
began to starve. By the time I was nothing but skin and bone, nobody was
paying the slightest attention to me and I took the opportunity to run away.
For seven days and seven nights I walked without stopping. At dawn on the
eighth day, in the distance I could see folk picking peppers. They took pity
on me and led me to their king. I told His Majesty everything that had
happened since the day I left Baghdad, and feeling sorry for me, the king
presented me with a silver coin. I decided to stay in that hospitable city. It
was easy to make friends with the citizens, and they soon had great respect
for me. One day, I noticed that everyone the rich and the poor, always rode
bareback. Surprised at this I mentioned it to the king and he asked
'What is a saddle like?'
'Have I your permission to make one?' I asked him.
'If you wish,' he replied, ordering his servants to provide me with
everything I required. A skilled carpenter built the wooden shape, stuffed it
with wool and covered it with leather. A blacksmith forged the stirrups. Then
I strapped the saddle on a horse's back and persuaded the king to try riding
it. He was so delighted that he gave me a generous reward for my work. A few
days later, I had a visit from the Prime Minister. He too wanted a saddle, and
in the end, so did many other important officials at Court. I set to work at
making saddles for them all and quickly became wealthy.
As time went by, my reputation grew, and the king sent for me one day.
'You are now highly respected and well loved by all here. But what you need
is a wife. I wish you to marry the young lady I've chosen for you.' And this I
did willingly, for she was rich and beautiful. I was perfectly happy with my
wife and lived in peace.
'If I ever go home,' I said to myself, 'I'll take her with me.' But a man's
fate is always a mystery.
A little time later, I went to visit one of my neighbours. His wife had
died and he was desperate.
'My good friend,' I consoled him, 'don't torment yourself like this. You've
still a life to live. Maybe you'll get married again and find a wife that is
even better than your first one!'
'How do you expect me to remarry,' the man replied, 'when I've only one
more day to live!'
'What? But you're perfectly healthy! '
'I know,' he said, 'but I shall be buried along with my wife today. That's
our custom.' And as we were speaking, in came the man's friends and relations.
The dead woman was gently laid in her coffin and carried to the foot of a hill
by the sea shore. There the gravediggers lifted up a great stone, revealing a
deep pit. Once the coffin had been lowered into the pit, the widower was
obliged to follow it down, taking with him nothing but a jug of water and
seven pieces of bread. I cried,
'That's a fate worse than death,` I hurried straight to the king. 'How can
anyone be so cruel as to bury the living with the dead?' I asked him.
'It isn't cruel,' he replied. 'This custom has been followed since the dawn
of time.'
'Do strangers suffer the same fate?' I asked him.
'Yes. It touches all who live in this land and have married here.'
I was aghast. This meant that my life would be linked to my wife's, and if
she were to die, I would be buried with her. By sheer ill luck wife did fall
ill some time after and died only a few days later. Her relatives arrived,
dressed her, adorning her with all her jewellery, then laid her in her coffin.
They firmly gripped me and though I struggled and protested, I was lowered
into the pit. The stone clanged back into place over my head. Wild with
terror, I fainted. When I came to my senses I could see, with the aid of a
feeble light filtering from a tiny crack, that I was in a vast cavern. All
around, amongst broken coffins, lay skeletons covered with jewels. Horror gave
way to madness. I started to gather up the precious stones, without thinking
that I would never be able to take them out, for this place was to be my own
tomb. Overcome by desperation, I screamed, wept and swore, before dropping
exhausted by the wall of the cavern.
The days passed. I had carefully rationed my bread and water to make it
last. I soon lost all notion of time and had no idea how long I had been down
this pit. Yet a small ray of hope shone within me. I had survived so many
other adventures and trials that it seemed impossible that I should die now.
One day, the noise of rolling stones wakened me from sleep. I leapt to my feet
and rushed towards the spot the sound seemed to come from. There I saw a huge
badger which, alarmed at my sudden arrival, fled along a tunnel. I followed it
and after crawling for what seemed an eternity, caught sight of light: it was
the hole in the rock through which the badger had entered.
In the open air again, I found myself halfway up the hillside. Fresh air at
last! I felt as though I had been given a new lease of life. However, I went
back along the tunnel to the cavern and stripped the dead of the jewels they
would never need again.
On the shore I managed to catch some lobsters and other molluscs. The days
went by, and at last I saw a ship. I rushed to the top of the hill and waved a
white cloth. Luckily someone saw it and a lifeboat was lowered into the water.
I was soon aboard, safe and sound. The ship continued on its way. It was an
uneventful voyage, and some days later, I returned to Baghdad and my family
and friends. And that," said Sinbad, "is what happened to me on my fourth sea
voyage."
With that, the sailor fell silent and his guests remarked in tones of
wonder about their host's adventures. It was late when the porter rose to his
feet to leave, and again he found three gold coins slipped into his hand.
At the first light of dawn next day, Sinbad the Porter went to the house of
Sinbad the Sailor, who began to tell another tale.
"I was as good as dead more than once during my fourth voyage, but I soon
forgot the risks I had run. I began to feel the wanderlust again. This time I
bought a ship, signed on a captain and loaded it with cargo. We sailed and
traded from one island to another, till one day, we dropped anchor in a bay of
a desert island. Far in the distance I could see a white dome. It was a huge
egg. That's when I knew I had landed on Rukh's island. Though I warned the
merchants not to, they broke the egg and took out the chick. Just as they were
about to cook it, the sky grew very dark. Rukh's wings had blotted out the
sun. We all ran back to the ship and I shouted to cast off immediately. When
Rukh saw that the egg was broken, off he flew in search of his mate.
In a very short time, the two great birds came back, circled above the ship
for a moment or two, then flapped away. We were well out to sea when we
spotted the birds, each gripping a boulder in its talons. The captain managed
to swerve and avoid Rukh's rock, but the second boulder scored a direct hit
on the prow, smashing it to bits. The ship sank like a stone.
As luck would have it, fate floated a spar towards me and clinging to this,
I was washed by the tide onto an island beach. I found myself in an immense
garden of Eden, thickly planted with fruit trees and full of sparkling
streams. After wandering through this garden for a while, I came upon an old
man dressed in leaves, beside a spring. Thinking he must be another
shipwrecked sailor, I went over to him.
Without saying a word, the old man gestured that he wanted to go into the
nearby forest, but was unable to walk. So I hoisted him onto my shoulders.
However, when we reached the spot I thought he had pointed to, he refused to
get down. What's more, as I tried to shrug him off my back, he squeezed his
legs so tightly round my neck, I almost choked. I fell to the ground and the
stranger began to kick me with an energy that was amazing in one so old and so
small. Then I realised I was at his mercy. Indeed, by dint of kicking, he made
me carry him here and there, without a moments rest. The only time I got any
rest was when he fell asleep. But these breaks were very short, for the old
fellow would not let me be. Dazed by his blows, I was furious at being so
ill-rewarded for my kindness in helping him in the first place.
As I was wandering about one day with the old man on my back, I saw some
large water melons in a field. Close by was a vineyard, the vines laden with
grapes. I decided I could easily make some wine. The old man said he did not
mind and let me get on with the job. Several days later, the grapes had
fermented and when the old fellow saw me happily tasting the wine, he snatched
the gourd from my hands and drained it dry. A little later, he was flat on the
ground, helplessly drunk. I kicked him then as hard as I could and ran off.
A few days after this, a storm drove a ship into the bay, where she dropped
anchor. I was taken aboard, given fresh clothes and a meal. When the storm had
passed, the ship set sail and some weeks later we reached the monkey town.
This strange town got its name from the ferocious monkeys that invaded it
every evening. Towards sundown, the citizens were obliged to leave the town,
take refuge on ships and other craft and stay away from the shore. Anyone
remaining in the town would be killed by these fearsome creatures. Here too I
had another stroke of bad luck.
Having left the ship and gone to visit the town, I lingered at the market
and my ship left without me. I was roaming about feeling very frightened, for
it was almost evening, when a man came over to me.
'Come with me,' he said, 'or the monkeys will get you!' So I went aboard
his boat and spent the night out at sea, returning with the rest of the people
in the morning. And for the rest of the time I passed on the island, I spent
the night on this man's boat. The owner became a friend and he said to me:
'What's your job? What skills do you have?'
'I'm a merchant,' I replied, 'but I can't trade, for I've lost all I had.'
'Take this sack then,' he said 'fill it with stones. Go with these men and
do as they do! Maybe you'll manage to make some money.' So I filled the sack
with stones and went with the other men to a palm grove on the outskirts of
the town, the home of a tribe of monkeys. The men started to throw the stones
at the beasts, and from their perches in the treetops, the monkeys threw
coconuts. Whether this was in imitation of the men or in self defence, I do
not know. But when we had thrown all our stones, we filled the sacks with
coconuts. Back in the town, I took my coconut harvest to my friend.
'Sell as many as you need to and store the rest in my warehouse.' I could
not thank him enough for his help. Every day I went to the palm grove and came
back laden with coconuts. I sold some and stored the rest in the warehouse.
Then one fine day, a ship sailed in. Now was my chance to go home again. I
agreed a price with the captain for taking me and my load of coconuts. We set
sail immediately, calling at islands and ports, and at all of them I bartered
coconuts. On Cinnamon Island I bought cinnamon, on Pepper Island I got a large
quantity of pepper. Then we landed on an island where the aloe trees grew. The
wood of this tree is the best in the world and I bought a large number of
planks. Later, we came to the Pearl Sea. I called the fishermen and promised
them many coconuts is they would fish pearls for me. This they did, and they
brought me lots of big pearls.
'You have a great fortune there, Sir,' the fishermen exclaimed. Never
before had they found so many big pearls all at the one time. With the
blessing of Allah, we had an easy trip to Bassora, where I stopped for some
time before going on to Baghdad. There I found my home, family and all my
friends again. I gave generously, especially to widows and orphans, as I
always did. When all was said and done, I had succeeded in gaining nearly four
times the amount I had lost. That helped me to quickly forget all my
misadventures and I soon dropped back into a carefree, happy-go-lucky life.
"Go now!" said Sinbad the Sailor, "but return tomorrow, and I'll tell you
what happened during my sixth voyage."
Sinbad the Porter received his usual three gold coins and went off home.
Next morning, he returned, and was greeted with Sinbad the Sailor's usual
kindliness. When the other guests arrived, there was a cheerful feast and all
those present praised the sailor's generosity. After the meal, Sinbad began to
tell tale.
"Well, friends, I was so delighted to be back that my life was a round of
parties and festivities. Once more I forgot all my past suffering, fears and
brushes with death. One day, certain merchants who had just returned from a
long cruise, came to see me, and I was seized with the longing to set out on
my travels. So I bought new goods and took a passage on a large ship. It was a
peaceful voyage till the day the captain announced in frightened tones:
'The wind has blown us into unknown waters. Anything can happen now, for I
have no idea if there are reefs and rocks. I have no charts that show these
seas. All we can do is pray to Allah!' Still greatly alarmed, he set the sails
to quickly leave behind the uncharted waters. But the wind suddenly veered, so
violently that the rudder split apart, leaving us at the mercy of the waves, a
short distance from an island surrounded by terrifying rocks.
'There's no hope for us at all!' cried the captain. And a second later, the
ship crashed onto the rocks, smashing into a thousand splinters. With one or
two others, I managed to cling to a rock. We came later to a wide beach,
encircled by a steep mountain. Wreckage from many a shipwreck lay scattered on
the shore. Beside the beach, a river flowed for a short distance before
disappearing into an opening in the rock. We quickly discovered that things of
value were to be found amongst the wrecks and we picked up rubies, pearls,
emeralds and diamonds.
Our great fear, however, was of dying of hunger for, though there were a
few trees, not one bore any signs of fruit or even a berry to eat. And so,
within a few days, everyone had died but myself, and I knew that I could not
last long. I decided to dig my own grave.
'If I should feel too weak,' I told myself, 'I shall lay myself down in my
coffin and wait for death. Then the wind will blow sand over me and I too will
have a proper burial.' I dug the hole, then sat down to await the end, on the
bank of the river, cursing my craze for travel. As I gazed at the running
water, I suddenly realised that it must be flowing somewhere, perhaps even to
a place where people were living. I had to make a raft. With that thought, I
set to work using driftwood from the beach. Now, in order to float through the
entrance to the rock the raft would have to be short and narrow, so I made it
the same length as my own height and found two short sticks as oars. I loaded
all the gems I had found and my remaining items of food. Then I shoved it into
the water and lay down on it.
The current swept me under the shadow of the rock and into darkness. The
raft floated along, brushing the walls of the underground passageway, ready to
capsize from one minute to the next. Then the tunnel widened and the raft
glided so smoothly and so gently that I fell asleep.
When I awoke, I was back in the open air, lying on the grassy river bank
and surrounded by men. Their friendly looks quickly calmed my fears.
'Welcome, brother,' said one of the men as I opened my eyes. 'Where have
you come from? Who are you?' I almost shouted at him:
'In the name of all-holy Allah! Give me a bite of food. Then I'll answer
all your questions.' At once the kindly people brought me food and drink, and
as I gobbled it hungrily, I told them my tale.
'We must take you to our king,' said the men. 'This is an extraordinary
story. He'll be interested to hear it.' A few hours later, we were in the
city. My new friends had brought the raft too, with its load. The king gave me
a splendid welcome, listened to my tale and said how glad he was I had scraped
through. Being curious to hear about life in my own land, he asked me to stay
as his guest.
'I've learned a lot from you,' he told me. 'The Caliph of Baghdad seems to
be a wise ruler. I wish to send him a gift as a token of friendship and
respect. I'd like you to take it to him when you return to your own city.'
Not long after, a group of merchants engaged a ship to sail to Bassora.
This was my chance. I went to the king and told him I wanted to leave. And
with great courtesy, since I was to take his gift to the Caliph of Baghdad, he
paid all my travelling expenses.
The moment I reached Baghdad, I called on the Caliph with the gift. He was
amazed and wondered why an unknown king should be so generous. So I told him
what had happened. I spent almost a whole week at the Caliph's court, for the
ruler never tired of hearing me repeat my story. At long last, I was free to
return home, and I carefully laid my treasure in my strong boxes. And this is
the adventure of the sixth voyage," ended Sinbad the Sailor. The porter was
handed his three gold coins and off he went. Back he came at sunrise next day,
and again Sinbad the Sailor began to recount.
"As before, I craved to travel after a while. For a long time, we had fair
winds. Then one day, a storm blew up, bringing driving rain, like nothing we
had ever seen before. But this was not all, for a little later, the captain
began to tear his hair in desperation as he cried:
'Pray Allah if we're to be saved! This is the sea of the doomed, from which
there is no return.' Then he took a fistful of earth from a box, dampened it
with seawater, sniffed it and went on to say:
'Men, this is a strange part of the world we're in, with evil forces. We've
no hope of escape. We are close to the land where King Solomon is buried, and
the home of huge deadly snakes. Ships here are swallowed by monster fish!'
Hardly had the captain said these words than there was a terrible roar, like
the sound of a thousand tempests. In a flash a giant fish rose from the deep
and swam towards us. We had barely set eyes on this, when a second and then
another even more gigantic fish broke the surface of the sea. All three
splashed round and round us, then the biggest hurled itself at our ship, its
jaws gaping wide to swallow us. At that very instant, a great wave heaved the
ship into the air and threw it against the rocks. Everyone on board was
knocked into the sea. Gasping for breath, I managed to grab a plank. Then I
found I was alone, for all the others had drowned.
'If I get out of here alive,' I cried, 'I swear to Allah that I'll never
again leave Baghdad.' For two days and nights I floated in the sea, but on the
third day, my feet located dry land. I was on an island, and as I explored it,
I came to a river that reminded me of my previous voyage. Perhaps this river
too would carry me to safety.
Again I needed a raft, and set about finding suitable bits of wood.
Luckily, I laid hands on some precious sandalwood, which is light and floats
well. The raft was soon ready and I set off down the river. For two days,
everything went smoothly, but on the third day, the current dragged me in the
direction of a cave. Terror-stricken, I tried in vain to pole the raft to the
bank, but the river carried me into the heart of the mountain. This time the
tunnel was not very long, but a series of waterfalls boomed and echoed like
thunder and I was battered and beaten by the rushing waters. At long last,
after running the risk of being smashed to pieces against the rocks, the river
again flowed calmly and carried me along till I came to a city.
By that time I was half dead from hunger and terror. An old man with a
white beard took me home and gave me shelter. Some days later, he said to me.
'Come with me, my son, to the market and sell your goods.' I could not
understand what he meant. What goods? But I said nothing. Then I discovered
that the sandalwood, of which the raft was made, was valuable in that country.
And so, I again became rich. The old man grew so fond of me he wanted me to
marry his only daughter. I had no choice but to agree. In any case, his
daughter was kind and beautiful, as well as rich. Time passed and the old man
died. I inherited his worldly goods and also his position as chief of the
merchants.
But I quickly made an amazing discovery about some of the inhabitants of
the city: on the first day of each month, certain men grew wings, rose into
the air and flew far out of sight. The next day, they went back to everyday
life.
The first day of the next month, I approached one of the winged men and
jumped on his back. Off we flew, higher and higher into the sky, almost
touching the vaults of heaven, and I thought I heard the angels sing. Overcome
by emotion, I couldn't help calling out:
'Praise and Glory be to Allah!' I had hardly said the last word when a
giant tongue of fire leapt from the sky, just missing us by inches. We dived
down to the peak of a high mountain and the winged man yelled at me in rage:
'You spoiled everything, praising Allah while we were flying!'
'I never dreamt that it would do any harm,' I replied. 'I'm very sorry.
Please take me back to the city.' The man agreed, on condition that I made no
mention of Allah while on his back. He took me straight home where my wife,
worried at my absence, was delighted to see me. When I told her what had
happened, she said:
'You were naive. You mustn't go near these folk. They're brothers to the
Devil and hate the name of Allah.'
'What about your father?' I asked.
'My father never had anything to do with them, and never did anything
wrong. He wanted me to marry you so there would be no danger of my becoming
the wife of a winged man. Why don't you sell everything and let's go together
to Baghdad?' I took her advice and some months later, we came home. Here I saw
friends and relatives who had given up all hope of ever setting eyes on me
again, and they gave us a great homecoming.
Everyone was astonished to hear my story, but all were overjoyed when I
swore that I had been on my last voyage. And this was also my last adventure,"
concluded the host.
"Please excuse me for my complaints when I didn't know you and had no idea
how much you had gone through to become rich," said Sinbad the Porter. Sinbad
the Sailor hugged him and asked him to remain in his house as a guest. And
from that day on, Sinbad the Sailor and Sinbad the Porter lived together as
brothers.

THE WISE LlTTLE GIRL

Once upon a time . . . in the immense Russian steppe, lay a little village
where nearly all the inhabitants bred horses. It was the month of October,
when a big livestock market was held yearly in the main town. Two brothers,
one rich and the other one poor, set off for market. The rich man rode a
stallion, and the poor brother a young mare.
At dusk, they stopped beside an empty hut and tethered their horses
outside, before going to sleep themselves on two heaps of straw. Great was
their surprise, when, next morning they saw three horses outside, instead of
two. Well, to be exact the newcomer was not really a horse. It was a foal, to
which the mare had given birth during the night. Soon it had the strength to
struggle to its feet, and after a drink of its mother's milk, the foal
staggered its first few steps. The stallion greeted it with a cheerful whinny,
and when the two brothers set eyes on it for the first time, the foal was
standing beside the stallion.
"It belongs to me!" exclaimed Dimitri, the rich brother, the minute he saw
it. "It's my stallion's foal." Ivan, the poor brother, began to laugh.
"Whoever heard of a stallion having a foal? It was born to my mare!"
"No, that's not true! It was standing close to the stallion, so it's the
stallion's foal. And therefore it's mine!" The brothers started to quarrel,
then they decided to go to town and bring the matter before the judges. Still
arguing, they headed for the big square where the courtroom stood. But what
they didn't know was that it was a special day, the day when, once a year, the
Emperor himself administered the law. He himself received all who came seeking
justice. The brothers were ushered into his presence, and they told him all
about the dispute.
Of course, the Emperor knew perfectly well who was the owner of the foal.
He was on the point of proclaiming in favour of the poor brother, when
suddenly Ivan developed an unfortunate twitch in his eye. The Emperor was
greatly annoyed by this familiarity by a humble peasant, and decided to punish
Ivan for his disrespect. After listening to both sides of the story, he
declared it was difficult, indeed impossible, to say exactly who was the
foal's rightful owner. And being in the mood for a spot of fun, and since he
loved posing riddles and solving them as well, to the amusement of his
counsellors, he exclaimed:
"I can't judge which of you should have the foal, so it will be awarded to
whichever of you solves the following four riddles: what is the fastest thing
in the world? What is the fattest? What's the softest and what is the most
precious? I command you to return to the palace in a week's time with your
answers!" Dimitri started to puzzle over the answers as soon as he left the
courtroom. When he reached home, however, he realised he had nobody to help
him.
"Well, I'll just have to seek help, for if I can't solve these riddles,
I'll lose the foal!" Then he remembered a woman, one of his neighbours, to
whom he had once lent a silver ducat. That had been some time ago, and with
the interest, the neighbour now owed him three ducats. And since she had a
reputation for being quick-witted, but also very astute, he decided to ask her
advice, in exchange for cancelling part of her debt. But the woman was not
slow to show how astute she really was, and promptly demanded that the whole
debt be wiped out in exchange for the answers.
"The fastest thing in the world is my husband's bay horse," she said.
"Nothing can beat it! The fattest is our pig! Such a huge beast has never
been seen! The softest is the quilt I made for the bed, using my own goose's
feathers. It's the envy of all my friends. The most precious thing in the
world is my three-month old nephew. There isn't a more handsome child. I
wouldn't exchange him for all the gold on earth, and that makes him the most
precious thing on earth!"
Dimitri was rather doubtful about the woman's answers being correct. On the
other hand, he had to take some kind of solution back to the Emperor. And he
guessed, quite rightly, that if he didn't, he would be punished.
In the meantime, Ivan, who was a widower, had gone back to the humble
cottage where he lived with his small daughter. Only seven years old, the
little girl was often left alone, and as a result, was thoughtful and very
clever for her age. The poor man took the little girl into his confidence, for
like his brother, he knew he would never be able to find the answers by
himself. The child sat in silence for a moment, then firmly said:
"Tell the Emperor that the fastest thing in the world is the cold north
wind in winter. The fattest is the soil in our fields whose crops give life to
men and animals alike, the softest thing is a child's caress and the most
precious is honesty."
The day came when the two brothers were to return before the Emperor. They
were led into his presence. The Emperor was curious to hear what they had to
say, but he roared with laughter at Dimitri's foolish answers. However, when
it was Ivan's turn to speak, a frown spread over the Emperor's face. The poor
brother's wise replies made him squirm, especially the last one, about
honesty, the most precious thing of all. The Emperor knew perfectly well that
he had been dishonest in his dealings with the poor brother, for he had denied
him justice. But he could not bear to admit it in front of his own
counsellors, so he angrily demanded:
"Who gave you these answers?" Ivan told the Emperor that it was his small
daughter. Still annoyed, the great man said:                      -~
"You shall be rewarded for having such a wise and clever daughter. You
shall be awarded the foal that your brother claimed, together with a hundred
silver ducats . . . But . . . but . . ." and the Emperor winked at his
counsellors:
"You will come before me in seven days' time, bringing your daughter. And
since she's so clever, she must appear before me neither naked nor dressed,
neither on foot nor on horseback, neither bearing gifts nor empty-handed. And
if she does this, you will have your reward. If not, you'll have your head
chopped off for your impudence!"
The onlookers began to laugh, knowing that the poor man would never to able
to fulfill the Emperor's conditions. Ivan went home in despair, his eyes
brimming with tears. But when he had told his daughter what had happened, she
calmly said:
"Tomorrow, go and catch a hare and a partridge. Both must be alive! You'll
have the foal and the hundred silver ducats! Leave it to me!" Ivan _did as his
daughter said. He had no idea what the two creatures were for, but he trusted
in his daughter's wisdom.
On the day of the audience with the Emperor, the palace was thronged with
bystanders, waiting for Ivan and his small daughter to arrive. At last, the
little girl appeared, draped in a fishing net, riding the hare and holdig the
partridge in her hand. She was neither naked nor dressed, on foot or on
horseback. Scowling, the Emperor told her:
"I said neither bearing gifts nor empty-handed!" At these words, the little
girl held out the partridge. The Emperor stretched out his hand to grasp it,
but the bird fluttered into the air. The third condition had been fulfilled.
In spite of himself, the Emperor could not help admirlng the llttle girl who
had so cleverly passed such a test, and in a gentler volce, he sald:
"Is your father terribly poor, and does he desperately need the foal.
"Oh, yes!" replied the little girl. "We live on the hares he catches in the
rivers and the fish he picks from the trees!"
"Aha!" cried the Emperor triumphantly. "So you're not as clever as you seem
to be! Whoever heard of hares in the river and fish in the trees! To which the
little girl swiftly replied:
"And whoever heard of a stallion having a foal?" At that, both Emperor and
Court burst into peals of laughter. Ivan was immediately glven his hundred
silver ducats and the foal, and the Emperor proclalmed:
"Only in my kingdom could such a wise little girl be born!"

THE WOLF AND THE SEVEN KIDS

Once upon a time . . . a Mother Goat lived in a pretty little house with
her seven kids. Mother often had to leave home to do the shopping, and on that
fateful day, she had given her children the usual warnings, before setting off
to market.
"You mustn't open the door to anyone. Don't forget, there's a wicked wolf
lurking about here. It's black, with horrible paws and a nasty deep voice. If
it knocks, keep the door tightly shut!" Mother Goat's words were wise indeed,
for as she was telling one of her neighbours about her fears, the wolf
disguised as a peasant was hiding close by, listening to every word.
"Good! Very good!" said the wolf to himself."If the goat goes market, I'II
drop by her house and gobble the kids!' Then,trying not to look too
conspicuous, the wolf hurried along to the goat's house. There, he threw off
his disguise. He then growled in a deep voice: "Open the door! Open the door!
It's Mother! I've just come back from market! Open the door!" When the kids
heard the deep voice, they remembered their mother's warning. From behind the
barred door, they said to the wolf: "We know who you are! You're the wolf! Our
mother has a sweet gentle voice, not a deep nasty one like yours! Go away!
We'll never open the door to you!"
And though the wolf banged furiously on the door, the kids, though
trembling with terror, refused to let him into the house, and so the door
remained shut. Then the wolf had a brainwave. He dashed off to the baker's and
got a big cake dripping with honey. He hoped this would sweeten his voice. And
in fact, after eating it, his voice didn't sound quite so deep. Over and over
again, he practised imitating Mother Goat's voice. You see, he'd heard it in
the woods. When he felt certain he could easily be mistaken for Mother Goat
herself, he rushed back to the house and the seven kids.
"Open the door! Open the door! It's Mother! I've just come back from
market! Open the door!" he called. This time, the kids had doubts: the voice
did rather sound like mother's, and they were about to unlock the door, when
the black kid suspiciously cried: "Mother, let us see your foot!" Without
thinking, the wolf raised a black hairy paw. And the kids knew that the wolf
had come back.
"You're not our mother! She doesn't have horrid black paws!" cried the
kids. "Go away, you wicked wolf!"
And once more, in spite of all his hard work, the wolf found the door
locked against him. The wolf ran down to the mlll, and found a sack of flour.
He thrust his paws into it until they were pure white.
"I'll trick them this time," he said. "Mmm! My mouth's watering already!
I'm hungry! My tummy's empty and my trousers are falling off! I'll swallow
these tender kids whole!" Again he knocked on the door.
"Open the door! Open the door! It's Mother! I've just come back from
market! Open the door!" The voice seemed exactly like mother's, but the wary
kids quickly called out: "Mother, let us see your foot!" The wily wolf lifted
a snow white paw, and the kids, now reassured, threw open the door. What a
shock they received! An enormous set of jaws with sharp fangs growled
fiercely. Cruel claws reached out for their prey. The kids scattered in
terror. One dived under the table, while other crawled below the bed. Another
kid hid in the cupboard and one tried to hide in the oven, though the stove
was still hot. One kid crouched inside a barrel and one hid in the grandfather
clock. There he huddled, holding his breath, as the wolf hunted down his
brothers. One by one, the kids were pulled from their hiding places. All
except for the kid in the clock. The wicked wolf's appetite did not pass until
he had found them and swallowed each in a single gulp.
The only one to escape was the little black kid, for the wolf never
imagined that there was room for a kid inside the very narrow grandfather
clock. In the meantime, Mother Goat had really come back from market.  When,
from a distance, she noticed that the door was ajar, she rushed home, her
heart in her mouth. She had a sinking feeling: what she feared had really
happened. The wicked wolf had gobbled up all her children. She dropped into a
chair, sobbing bitterly, but as she cried, the door of the grandfather clock
swung open and out ran the black kid.
"Mummy! Mummy!" wept the kid. "It was terrible! The wolf came, and I think
he's eaten all my brothers!"
"My poor child!" sobbed Mother Goat. "You're the only one left! That evil
brute has gobbled them all!"
Not long after, Mother Goat and her son left the house to take a stroll in
the garden. Suddenly, she heard a low wheezing sound: someone was snoring
heavily. It was the greedy wolf. His feast of kids had been too much for him
and he was fast asleep, dead to the world. In a flash, Mother Goat had a
brainwave. She said to her son: "Run and fetch me a needle and thread and a
pair of scissors!" With these, she swiftly slit open the wolf's stomach. As
she had hoped, the ravenous brute had swallowed every kid whole. There they
were all stlll alive alive inside his tummy. One by one, out they popped from
the wolf's tummy.
"Hurry! Hurry! Not a sound! We must get away before he wakens up! Wait!
Fetch me a heap of stones!" And so they filled the wolf's stomach with stones
and stitched it up again. The wolf woke later with a raging thirst.
"What a heavy tummy I have!" he said. "I've eaten too much! All these
kids!" But when he went down the river to drink, his tummy full of stones
tipped him over and he fell into the water. The weight took him straight to
the bottom, and the goat and her kids shrieked with joy as he sank. The
wicked wolf was dead and the kids trotted home happily with Mother.

THE WOLF AND THE CRANE

Once upon a time . . . a wolf well known for his ferocity received his
punishment for being greedy. As he was devouring a lamb, a tiny sharp bone
stuck in his throat. And from that day on, he could swallow nothing except
sips of water, which neither soothed the pain nor appeased his hunger. Though
he tried every remedy he knew, he was unable to dislodge the bone. In despair,
he started to ask everyone he knew for help. But, scared of his awful
reputation, folk made excuses to avoid the wolf and would have nothing to do
with him. One day, from behind his barred door, the fox said: "I'm not well,
so I can't open the door, but I think you ought to have a word with the crane
down at the end of the big pond. Folk say she's the best doctor around here.
Without much hope and feeling sorry for himself, the wolf went to see the
crane. And when he got to her house, he tried his best to be pleasant.
"Mrs Crane, I'm told you're enormously clever. If you can help me, I'll
give you a rich reward!"
At first, the crane, well aware of the wolf's reputation, was alarmed,
though also proud at the idea of treating such a famous patient. And,
attracted too by the promise of a reward, she said she'd see what she could
do.
The wolf opened wide his huge mouth. The crane shuddered at the thought of
peering inside the red jaws with their sharp fangs, but plucking up her
courage, she said: "Now, please keep your mouth wide open, or I won't be able
to remove the bone!" And she poked her long beak down the wolf's throat and
pulled out the little bone.
"There! You can close your mouth again. You'll be able to swallow whatever
you like now!" The wolf could hardly believe it. His throat was clear at last!
Highly delighted, the crane said: "See how clever I am? You didn't feel a
thing! I whipped out that nasty bone with my long beak! And as for my
reward..." The wolf interrupted with a scowl.
"Reward? What reward? You ought to be grateful that I didn't bite your head
off while it was down my throat! You should give me a reward for sparing your
life!"
Seeing the wolf's bloodshot eyes, the crane realized she was now in danger.
What more could she expect from such a wicked wolf? And she vowed that, from
then on, she'd only treat patients too harmless ever to threaten her.

THE WOLF AND THE LAMB

Once upon a time . . . in the forest lived a wolf, known to be savage and
ruthless. One day, feeling thirsty, the wolf went down to a stream, and as he
drank the sparkling water, he saw a lamb drinking, further downstream. The
minute he set eyes on the hapless lamb, he decided to make a meal of it. "A
nice plump lamb! Fine and tender! Yummy! That will be deliclous! I haven't had
such luck in ages! Now, I must find an excuse for picking a quarrel, so that
nobody can accuse me of gobbling it unjustly!"
Unaware of the wolf, the lamb was still happily sipping the water when it
heard a deep growl from above its head.
"You down there! You're muddying my drinking water!"
The lamb gasped in surprise: "I'm sorry, Mr. Wolf, but I can t possibly be
muddying your drinking water. I'm below you and the water is flowing downhill,
not up!"
The wicked wolf was taken aback by this reply, but only for an instant. He
quickly hit upon another excuse to be angry. "I hear you went around six
months ago telling people that I'm violent and a bully!"
At that, the now frightened lamb began to tremble, and it replied in a tiny
voice: "How can you believe such a thing, Mr. Wolf? I've never said a bad word
about you! Indeed, I'll be able only to speak well of you in the future." To
its relief, the lamb remembered that it could prove its innocence. "I wasn't
even born six months ago! So I couldn't have spread gosslp about you."
But the wolf was only interested in gobbling up his prey, so he hastily
broke in: "Well, if it wasn't you, it was your father," and, pouncing on the
little white lamb, he quickly ate it.
Alas and alack! Innocence does not always save us from the clutches of a
tyrant.

From: Floyd Gecko

The Wombat:

It was a dark and putrid night, and the wind was hiding
somewhere for fear of being mugged.  A dark shape emerged from the
bar and staggered to the side of the road.  It was a wombat.  I
could tell by the shape.  Then it was  mugged.  The mugger leapt
at it and hit it in the head.

I ran towards it, but the street was rubbery, and I was
bouncing far too much to reach the poor wombat before it's wallet
was stolen.

"Moan," moaned the creature.

"Shut up," I told it.  The mugger was running down the
street with the money I'd planned to steal.  Damn.

I kicked the wombat, and ran after him.  The wind whipped
in my face from the speed of running, and I mugged it too.  Not
bad.  A hundred and eleven bucks.  An amex gold card, and... "How
To Turn Wombat Skin Into A Working Submachine Gun In Four Easy
Steps" -- a pamphlet.

I ran back to where the wombat had been, but it had been
spirited away.  I sat gloomily on the pavement with my feet in the
gutter.  Then the wombat jumped me and tried to take the $111.
Damned if I'd let a marsupial overpower ME.  I clubbed it to death
with the gold card.

The dead wombat's pelt was hard to remove, but the prospect
of a working submachine gun kept me going through the wee small
hours of the morning.  Finally, it was done.  The skin was removed.
I opened the pamphlet with hands stained by wombat innards.

"HA HA," it laughed.  "FOOLED YOU!"

I cried inconsolably until I was mugged by a wombat corpse.

To this day, I regret not driving the stake through that
wombat's heart.  If you've heard stories, called Urban Myths,
perhaps, of an undead being that walks the streets, well you have
me to blame.  It leaps on people from a flame-red Harley-Davidson
and gnaws their heads off, to turn them into it's undead minions.

Some say that I am the only one ever to see it's gruesome
eyes and live to tell the tale.  Some don't.  What do they know?
It's the truth.

I've tried for my whole life to rid this city of the unholy
being, but I fear what they've long said:

"Once beaten, twice a wombat shall kill you with a staplegun"
Or something like that.


I want more, please.
Thanks for that.
Thank you for that.
Hi, how are you?
Hello, how are you?
Bye for now!
I'm very sorry for doing that.
Yes, absolutely!
No way!
Absolutely not!
No thank you
Okay, that's fine.
That's okay.
Please do it again.
Do not eat that.
Please eat that.
Do not drink that.
Please drink that.
Please go.
Go, please.
Please stop.
Stop, please.
I am going to run.
I am running.
I run.
I ran.
I am going to jump.
I am jumping.
I jump.
I jumped.
I am going to walk.
I am walking.
I walk.
I walked.
I am going to sleep.
I am sleeping.
I sleep.
I slept.
I am going to kiss you.
I am kissing you.
I kiss you.
I kissed you.
Will you please give me a kiss?
Will you please kiss me?
I am going to open this.
I am opening this.
I open this.
I opened this.
I opened that.
I am going to close this.
I am closing this.
I close this.
I closed this.
I closed that.
I am going to push this.
I am pushing this.
I push this.
I pushed this.
I pushed that.
I am going to pull this.
I am pulling this.
I pull this.
I pulled this.
I pulled that.
I am going to fix this.
I am fixing this.
I fix this.
I fixed this.
I fixed that.
I am going to break this.
I am breaking this.
I break this.
I broke this.
I broke that.
I am going to play with you.
I am going to play with my friend.
I am going to play with my friends.
I am playing with you.
I am playing with my friend.
I am playing with my friends.
I play with you.
I play with my friend.
I play with my friends.
I played with you.
I played with my friend.
I played with my friends.
I am going to want this.
I want this.
I wanted this.
I am going to hug you.
I am hugging you.
I hug you.
I hugged you.
I love you.
I loved you.
I am going to hurt you.
I am hurting you.
I am hurt.
I was hurt.
I am going to tickle you.
I am tickling you.
I tickle you.
I tickled you.
I am going to give this to you.
I am giving this to you.
I give this to you.
I gave this to you.
I gave that to you.
It is all gone.
Give me that.
Give that to me.
I am going to dance with you.
I am dancing with you.
I dance with you.
I danced with you.
I am going to help you.
I am helping you.
I help you.
I helped you.
I am going to fall off.
I am falling off.
I fall off.
I fell off.
I am going to shake.
I am shaking.
I shake.
I shook.
I am going to see you.
I am seeing you.
I see you.
I saw you.
I am going to watch a movie.
I am watching a movie.
I watch a movie.
I watched a movie.
I am going to look at you.
I am looking at you.
I look at you.
I looked at you.
I am going to sit on this.
I am sitting on this.
I sit on this.
I sat on this.
I sat on that.
I am going to stand.
I am standing.
I stand.
I stood.
I am going to stand up.
I am standing up.
I stand up.
I stood up.
I am going to throw this.
I am throwing this.
I throw this.
I threw this.
I threw that.
I am going to catch this.
I am catching this.
I catch this.
I caught this.
I caught that.
I am going to cry.
I am crying.
I cry.
I cried.
I am going to swing.
I am swinging.
I swing.
I swung.
I am going to slide.
I am sliding.
I slide.
I slid.
I am going to climb.
I am climbing.
I climb.
I climbed.
I am going to ride this.
I am riding this.
I ride this.
I rode this.
I rode that.
I am going to come.
I am coming.
I come.
I came.
Come on!
I am going to draw.
I am drawing.
I draw.
I drew.
I am going to blow on this.
I am blowing on this.
I blow on this.
I blew on this.
I blew on that.
I am going up there.
I am going down there.
I am going into there.
I am going in.
I am coming out.
I am getting off.
I am getting on.
I am here.
I am there.
I am around here.
I am under here.
I am behind.
I am over there.
I am over here.
I am at my friend's house.
That is big.
That is little.
That is hot.
That is cold.
That is loud.
That is quiet.
That is yucky.
That is icky.
That is scary.
That is funny.
That is silly.
That is dirty.
That is clean.
That is gentle.
That is wet.
That is soft.
That is fast.
That is slow.
That is red.
That is blue.
That is yellow.
That is green.
That is pink.
That is orange.
That is purple.
That is black.
That is white.
That is brown.
That is my favorite color.
That is all gone.
There is none.
There is none left.
There is some.
There is some left.
The rest.
There is one.
There are two.
There are three.
There are four.
There are five.
There are six.
There are seven.
There are eight.
There are nine.
There are ten.
There are eleven.
There are twelve.
There are thirteen.
There are fourteen.
There are fifteen.
There are sixteen.
There are seventeen.
There are eighteen.
There are nineteen.
There are twenty.
That is me.
That is mine.
That is my toy.
You are kind.
You are my mom.
You are my dad.
You are my friend.
It is there.
He is there.
She is there.
It is him.
It was him.
It is her.
It was her.
That is a ball.
That is a book.
That is a train.
That is a bike.
That is rain.
Those are bubbles.
That is a bubble.
That is a car.
That is a truck.
That is a boat.
That is a plane.
That is a baby.
That is a bowl.
That is a spoon.
That is a diaper.
That is a sock.
That is a shoe.
That is a shirt.
Those are pants.
That is a hat.
That is a star.
That is a flower.
That is a house.
That is a tree.
That is a brush.
That is a towel.
That is a bath.
That is a chair.
That is a table.
That is a bed.
That is a blanket.
That is a light.
That is a cookie.
That is a cracker.
That is a chip.
That is cheese.
That is an apple.
That is a banana.
That is ice cream.
That is cereal.
That is a candy.
That is candy.
That is milk.
That is juice.
That is water.
That is a dog.
That is a cat.
That is a fish.
That is a bird.
That is a duck.
That is a cow.
That is a horse.
That is a bunny.
That is a bear.
That is a pig.
That is a lion.
That is a elephant.
That is a giraffe.
That is a zebra.
That is a monkey.
That is a chicken.
That is a butterfly.
That is a bee.
That is a frog.
That is a alligator.
That is a snake.
That is a cheetah.
That is a pangolin.
That is a penguin.
That is my mom.
That is my dad.
That is my brother.
That is my sister.
That is my pet.
Those are my grandparents.
That is my grandpa.
That is my grandma.
